{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-BoldItalic;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28220\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \ul \ulc2 \CocoaLigature0 LDA-Analysis of \'93The Symbolism of Evil\'94\

\f1\i0\b0 \ulnone Num-Topics = 20\
Top-Words = 10\
Top-Doc-Per-Topic = 10\
Min-Word-Count = 10\
\
\

\f0\i\b \ul Topic-Word Distribution
\f1\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
(0, '0.009*"symbolism" + 0.008*"man" + 0.007*"defilement" + 0.005*"shall" + 0.005*"time" + 0.004*"symbols" + 0.004*"cosmic" + 0.004*"evil" + 0.003*"sin" + 0.003*"myth"')\
\
(1, '0.017*"man" + 0.014*"myth" + 0.008*"god" + 0.007*"soul" + 0.006*"order" + 0.005*"consciousness" + 0.005*"history" + 0.005*"punishment" + 0.004*"sense" + 0.004*"guilt"')\
\
(2, '0.013*"evil" + 0.010*"sin" + 0.009*"man" + 0.008*"symbol" + 0.006*"god" + 0.006*"law" + 0.005*"myth" + 0.004*"consciousness" + 0.004*"does" + 0.004*"say"')\
\
(3, '0.011*"body" + 0.009*"soul" + 0.009*"myth" + 0.006*"man" + 0.005*"does" + 0.005*"vision" + 0.004*"human" + 0.004*"tragic" + 0.004*"shall" + 0.004*"existence"')\
\
(4, '0.014*"myth" + 0.011*"god" + 0.010*"man" + 0.009*"sin" + 0.006*"evil" + 0.004*"guilt" + 0.004*"defilement" + 0.004*"suffering" + 0.003*"end" + 0.003*"new"')\
\
(5, '0.012*"myth" + 0.011*"evil" + 0.011*"man" + 0.010*"god" + 0.006*"tragic" + 0.005*"op" + 0.004*"pp" + 0.004*"human" + 0.004*"does" + 0.004*"tragedy"')\
\
(6, '0.012*"evil" + 0.009*"man" + 0.008*"myth" + 0.006*"history" + 0.005*"life" + 0.005*"symbols" + 0.005*"body" + 0.004*"world" + 0.004*"symbol" + 0.004*"experience"')\
\
(7, '0.009*"man" + 0.008*"life" + 0.008*"experience" + 0.007*"myth" + 0.006*"history" + 0.005*"soul" + 0.005*"death" + 0.005*"body" + 0.005*"time" + 0.004*"human"')\
\
(8, '0.023*"sin" + 0.011*"law" + 0.009*"evil" + 0.009*"man" + 0.007*"defilement" + 0.006*"god" + 0.005*"experience" + 0.005*"shall" + 0.004*"symbol" + 0.004*"fault"')\
\
(9, '0.012*"god" + 0.012*"man" + 0.011*"sin" + 0.008*"experience" + 0.005*"shall" + 0.005*"guilt" + 0.004*"myth" + 0.004*"evil" + 0.004*"fault" + 0.004*"king"')\
\
(10, '0.020*"god" + 0.010*"man" + 0.005*"does" + 0.005*"death" + 0.005*"defilement" + 0.004*"yahweh" + 0.004*"tragic" + 0.004*"suffering" + 0.004*"wrath" + 0.003*"figure"')\
\
(11, '0.017*"evil" + 0.016*"man" + 0.013*"tragic" + 0.010*"myth" + 0.007*"god" + 0.006*"creation" + 0.005*"adamic" + 0.005*"end" + 0.004*"world" + 0.004*"gods"')\
\
(12, '0.011*"symbol" + 0.006*"god" + 0.006*"man" + 0.005*"evil" + 0.005*"defilement" + 0.004*"interpretation" + 0.004*"body" + 0.004*"soul" + 0.004*"philosophy" + 0.004*"shall"')\
\
(13, '0.009*"tragic" + 0.008*"man" + 0.007*"guilt" + 0.005*"god" + 0.004*"evil" + 0.004*"time" + 0.004*"symbolism" + 0.004*"sin" + 0.004*"symbols" + 0.003*"language"')\
\
(14, '0.017*"soul" + 0.016*"myth" + 0.011*"body" + 0.008*"god" + 0.008*"evil" + 0.007*"man" + 0.007*"tragic" + 0.004*"fault" + 0.004*"symbols" + 0.004*"return"')\
\
(15, '0.013*"man" + 0.011*"sin" + 0.008*"evil" + 0.005*"pp" + 0.005*"myth" + 0.005*"defilement" + 0.005*"second" + 0.005*"god" + 0.004*"confession" + 0.004*"experience"')\
\
(16, '0.018*"myth" + 0.016*"evil" + 0.014*"man" + 0.006*"experience" + 0.004*"meaning" + 0.004*"human" + 0.004*"figure" + 0.004*"symbol" + 0.004*"adamic" + 0.004*"say"')\
\
(17, '0.012*"man" + 0.009*"law" + 0.009*"god" + 0.006*"sin" + 0.005*"tragic" + 0.005*"symbols" + 0.005*"evil" + 0.005*"symbolism" + 0.004*"death" + 0.004*"shall"')\
\
(18, '0.011*"myth" + 0.007*"evil" + 0.006*"meaning" + 0.006*"shall" + 0.005*"soul" + 0.005*"god" + 0.005*"time" + 0.004*"say" + 0.004*"symbol" + 0.004*"history"')\
\
(19, '0.011*"man" + 0.010*"myth" + 0.009*"god" + 0.005*"gods" + 0.004*"freedom" + 0.004*"fall" + 0.004*"word" + 0.004*"history" + 0.004*"prometheus" + 0.003*"creation"')\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

\f0\i\b \ul Topic-Document Distribution
\f1\i0\b0 \ulnone \
\
------Topic 0------\
Word Distribution: [('symbolism', 0.008632854), ('man', 0.007858472), ('defilement', 0.0069650626), ('shall', 0.0054470086), ('time', 0.004511465), ('symbols', 0.0043181786), ('cosmic', 0.0042546466), ('evil', 0.0035771865), ('sin', 0.0033266388), ('myth', 0.0032651364)]\
\
Segment 1223: 2.	That doctrine of sin, even when considered abstractly, detached from its soteriological context, is not an incomprehensible revelation; besides its relation of suitability to Christology, it is revealed insofar as it is revealing. In fact, here again we find our interpretation of the myth as a symbol of the second degree. It is far from being the case that the Christian believer is obliged to limit himself to the alternative, either myth or revelation; rather, he should resolutely seek the meaning revealed in the story of the fall on the basis of its interpretation as myth, in the twofold sense of an etiological fable demythologized by history and a revealing symbol liberated by the very process of demythologization. Is not the revelation of this myth, then, precisely its power to challenge? St. Paul spoke of the \'93inner witness of the Holy Spirit.\'94 What can that witness signify, in the particular case of the understanding of evil, its nature, and its origin, if not the \'93discerning of spirits\'94? And is that, in its turn,. anything other than the election of the best myth, the recognition of the most significant, the most revealing myth, and, at the same time, the myth that can most appropriately be co-ordinated with the advent of salvation, serving as a prolegomenon to the faith? If it is in this sense that we must seek for some quality of revelation in the Biblical story of the fall, that quality is not irrational; it calls for verification of its revealed origin by its revealing power. The Holy Spirit is not an arbitrary and absurd commandment, it is discernment; as it addresses itself to my intelligence, it invites me, in my turn, to practice the crisis, the discernment of myths; and this is already a way of practicing the crede ut intelligas which we shall evoke in the following chap- \uc0\u9632  ter. This discernment calls for a hermeneutics capable of bringing out the symbolic meaning of the myth. As we shall show in the methodological chapter that terminates this investigation of the myths of evil, the hermeneutics, in its turn, requires that the philosopher wager his belief, and that he lose or win the wager by putting the revealing power of the symbol to the test of selfunderstanding. In understanding himself better, the philosopher verifies, up.to a certain point, the wager of his faith. All the rest of this work will be devoted to the verification of the wager through integral experience; thus the revealing power of the myth will be manifested. This is the second way in which the believer justifies his belief in the revealed character of the myth to which he ascribes pre-eminence.\
\
Segment 1352: The progressive transmutation of the symbol of the body is quite visible in a dialogue like the Phaedo, of which it has been said that it runs through the whole gamut of the degrees of knowledge. Now, just as the meaning of the soul changes, as one rises above simple exhortation, which is itself close to mythical speech, the meaning of the body changes also. At the first level, it is living in its totality, and as such, that constitutes evil and forms the absolute contrary of philosophizing; the body is the counterpole of thought; apparently no innocence is left unsullied by contact with the world, since it is the body that \'93troubles the soul and prevents it from attaining truth and thought, every time we have dealings with it\'94 (66a); philosophy consists then in the death of the body, in order to \'93behold things themselves with the soul itself\'94 (66d); the body appears to be pre-eminently the locus of evil; \'93our soul is mixed with an evil thing\'94 (66b), it is delivered up to the \'93dementia of the body\'94 (67a). But even at this lower degree of knowledge, the evil influence of the body does not reside in what today we would call its materiality, nor in its power to make contact with things; rather, what is blamed in that contact is the \'93spell\'94 that bewitches it and thus rivets the soul to the body, making it captive to the \'93contact\'94: \'93The soul of every human being, when it is intensely pleased or pained by something, thinks that the particular object of its feeling is the clearest and truest thing in the world, although it is not so at all\'94 (83c). Hence, if the percept is not innocent, that is because the feeling that clings to it is not innocent either; and the feeling, in its turn, holds the soul captive because there is in the soul a dizziness that transforms feeling and perception into ?ra0o$. It is this dizziness in the soul that precipitates the soul into a body of desire (79c). Hence \'93passivity\'94 is secretly an action of the soul which makes itself a captive, which delivers itself up to imprisonment: \'93And the astonishing thing about this prison, as philosophy has seen, is that it is the work of desire and that he who helps most to load the prisoner with his chains is perhaps the prisoner himself\'94 (82e). If this is so, it must be admitted that the soul is \'93its own tormentor.\'94\
\
Segment 103: Thus one is struck by the importance and the gravity attached to the violation of interdictions of a sexual character in the economy of defilement. The prohibitions against incest, sodomy, abortion, relations at forbidden times-\'97-and sometimes places\'97are so fundamental that the inflation of the sexual is characteristic of the whole system of defilement, so that an indissoluble complicity between sexuality and defilement seems to have been formed from time immemorial. This preponderance of sexual interdictions becomes very strange when it is compared with the two other characteristics described above: the extension of interdiction to actions morally neutral and the silence of the same ritual codes with regard to lying, theft\} and sometimes homicide. This convergence of traits reveals that the defilement of sexuality as such is a theme foreign to the ethics that proceeds from the confession of divine holiness, as well as to the ethics that is organized around the theme of justice or the integrity of the moral person. The defilement of sexuality is a belief that is pre-ethical in character; it can become ethical, as the defilement of the murderer can become ethical in becoming an offense against the reciprocity of the human bond, although it precedes any ethics of the second person and is immersed in the archaic belief in the maleficent virtues of shed blood. The comparison between sexuality and murder is supported by the same play of images: in both cases, impurity is connected with the presence of a material "something\'94 that transmits itself by contact and contagion. We shall say presently what there is in the consciousness of defilement that resists a literal, realistic, even materialistic interpretation of impure contact. If, from the beginning, defilement were not a symbolic stain, it would be incomprehensible that the ideas of defilement and purity could be corrected and taken up into an interpersonal ethics that puts the accent on the acquisitive or obla-tive aspects of sexuality\'97in short, on the quality of the relation to another. Nevertheless, by many of its traits sexuality supports the ambiguity of a quasi-materiality of defilement. At the limit, the infant Would be regarded as born impure, contaminated from the beginning by the paternal seed, by the impurity of the maternal\
\
Segment 180: logical types, the most remarkable example of \'93transition\'94 from defilement to sin is furnished by the Babylonian confession of sins. The symbol of defilement is dominated by the symbol of \'93binding,\'94 which is still a symbol of externality, but which expresses seizure, possession, enslavement, rather than contagion and contamination: \'93May the evil that is in my body, in my muscles and tendons, depart today,\'94 the penitent prays; but at the same time as the schema of defilement is incorporated into that of possession, the notions of transgression and iniquity are added: \'93Deliver me from the spell that is upon me . . . for an evil spell and an impure disease and transgression and iniquity and sin are in my body, and a wicked spectre is attached to me.\'94 It is already the personal relation to a god that determines the spiritual space where sin is distinguished from defilement; the penitent experiences the assault of demons as the counterpart of the absence of the god: \'93An evil curse has cut the throat of this man as if he were a Iamb; his god has gone out of his body, his goddess has kept herself aloof.\'94 Polarly opposed to the god before whom he stands, the penitent becomes conscious of his sin as a dimension of his existence, and no longer only as a reality that haunts him; the examination of conscience and the interrogative thinking that it gives rise to are already there: from facts the penitent goes back to acts and their obscure background: \'93Has he afflicted a god, scorned a goddess? Gan he have scorned, the name of his god in making an offering? Gan he have kept back what he might have consecrated?\'94 The question makes its way through the labyrinths of anguish and dereliction: \'93Call? No one hears. And that crushes me. Cry out? No one answers. That oppresses me,\'94 And the feeling of being abandoned gives a new impulse to confession, which plunges into the depths of forgotten or unknown sins, committed against an unknown god or goddess: \'93The faults that I have committed I do not know. . . . The sins that I have committed I do not know. . . , O god, known or un-\
\
Segment 773: The first entrance of the drama of creation into the History of men is the cult and the ensemble of ritual practices that surround all human activities. <65> Now the cult is already a kind of action\'97 not only a Active re-enactment, but a renewal of the drama by active participation. Mankind, says the creation-myth, <66> was created for the service of the gods, for which the gods founded Babylon, its temple, and its cult; and this service, when it is addressed to the god who established order, evoking this attribute explicitly, calls for the real re-enactment of the drama of creation. The magnitude of the New Year\'92s festival at Babylon is well known. <67> A whole people, in the presence of the gods assembled in effigy, reenacts the original battle in which the world order was won and relives the fundamental emotions of the poem\'97the cosmic anguish, the exaltation of battle, the jubilation in triumph. By the celebration of the festival, the people place their whole existence under the sign of the drama of creation. The connection with the poem is recalled by the recitation of it on the fourth day. The mimed dramatization of the poem in the rite of the festival is further amplified by the identification of Marduk with Tammuz, the dying and reviving god. Like the popular god, the national god is lost, held prisoner in the \'93mountain\'94; the people, thrown into confusion, weep for him as for a suffering and dying god; it is at once the death of a god and the return of the creation to chaos. The people \'93descend\'94 to the imprisoned god; then the god revives with the aid of the ritual; Marduk is liberated and released; his enthronement is re-enacted and the people participate in his deliverance by the great procession that marks the approach of the culminating point of the festival. The procession symbolizes Marduk\'92s\
\
Segment 1294: And yet the silence of Job, once the question itself has been blasted by the lightning, is not altogether the seal of meaninglessness. Neither is it altogether the zero degree of speech. Certain words are addressed to Job in exchange for his silence. Those words are not an answer to his problem; they are not at all a solution of the problem of suffering; they are in no way a reconstruction, at a higher degree of subtlety, of the ethical vision of the world. The God who addresses Job out of the tempest shows him Behemoth and Leviathan, the hippopotamus and the crocodile, vestiges of the chaos that has been overcome, representing a brutality dominated and measured by the creative act, Through these symbols he gives him to understand that all is order, measure, and beauty\'97inscrutable order, measure beyond measure, terrible beauty, A way is marked out between agnosticism and the penal view of history and life\'97\uc0\u9632  the way of unverifiable faith. There is nothing in that revelation that concerns him personally; but precisely because it is not a question of himself, Job is challenged. The oriental poet, like Anaximander and Heraclitus the Obscure, announces an order beyond order, a totality full of meaning, within which the individual must lay down his recrimination. Suffering is not explained, ethically or otherwise, but the contemplation of the whole initiates a movement which must be completed practically by the surrender of a claim, by the sacrifice of the demand that was at the beginning of the recrimination, namely, the claim to form by oneself a little island of meaning in the universe, an empire within an empire. It becomes suddenly apparent that the demand for retribution animated Job\'92s recriminations no less than the moralizing homilies of his friends. That, perhaps, is why the innocent Job, the upright Job, repents. Of what can he repent, if not of his claim for compensation, which made his contention impure? Was it not still.the law of retribution which drove him to demand an explanation-in pro-poition to his existence, a private explanation, a finite explanation?\
\
Segment 85: brought all cultures together in a whole. In the meantime, neither the history of religions nor philosophy can be a concrete universal capable of embracing all human experience. On the one hand, the objectivity of science, without a point of view and without situation, does not equalize cultures except by neutralizing their value; it cannot think the positive reasons for their equal value. On the other hand, philosophy, as we have received it from the Greeks and perpetuated it in the West, will remain unequal to this concrete universal as long as no serious encounter and no mutual clarification have brought these civilizations into the field of our experience and at the same time removed its limitation. This encounter and this mutual clarification have not yet really taken place. They have taken place for some men and some groups and they have been the great concern of their lives; but they have remained episodic for our culture as a whole. This is why, up to the present, they have not had the significance of a foundation (as did the encounter of the Greek question with the Hebrew religion) and of a re-creation (as have the various renaissances and returns to sources in the bosom of Western culture). Their phenomenological character is precisely that they have remained episodic, and so the relation of our culture to the Far East remains a relation to something distant. No doubt we are drawing closer to the moment of a creative encounter and the reshaping of a memory based on the opposition of \'93near\'94 and \'93far\'94; but we are not in a position to imagine what that will mean for the categories of our ontology and for our reading of the Pre-Socratics, Greek tragedy, and the Bible. But one thing is certain: we shall not enter into this great debate of each culture with all without our memory; the lessening of the distance between our civilization and those which today we still call \'93distant\'94 will not suppress the structuration of our memory, but will complicate it. It will not cease to be true that we were born to philosophy by Greece and that as philosophers we have encountered the Jews before encountering the Hindus and the Chinese.\
\
Segment 354: ceived me in sin.\'94 That is not all; neither the confession of the universality of sin nor the avowal of its alienating character accounts sufficiently for the complex motivation which lies at the Origin of the dogma. There was needed, in addition, a resumption of the affective categories of defilement in the system of sin. This resumption does not surprise us: the double character of reality and power in sin, relating it to defilement, makes possible the inclusion of the system of defilement in that of sin. Historically this resumption was manifested through the inclusion of the cultual religion of the Israelites in the ethical religion preached by the Prophets; and so ritual impurities were juxtaposed to \'93iniquities\'94 such as violence, treachery, cruelty, and the destinies of the two systems were mingled. As a result of these contaminations and exchanges, sin, in the strong sense of sin against God, becomes charged with the emotion of defilement, in the strong sense of unclean contact. That same fifty-first Psalm, although it proceeds from an acute experience of personal fault, of guilt in the precise sense, adopts the language of defilement: \'93Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin! . . . Cleanse me with hyssop and I shall be without spot; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.\'94 This assonance between sin and defilement is not without danger; the experience of sin is, as it were, dragged backward by the experience of defilement. As an example of this regressive tendency we can cite the reactivation, so frequent in the confession of sins, of the ancient tie between defilement and sexuality, the great affective complexity of which we have shown above: the sexual act, like birth, giving a physical basis to the symbol of unclean contact. It will be enough that the fault confessed be itself of the sexual order\'97as is the case in the confession of Psalm 51, in which King David repents the\
\
Segment 219: Amos\'97the shepherd Amos\'97was the first to elevate righteousness and justice (5:7; 5:21; 6:12) above the cult and its rites. <16><17> But there is no question of comparing these notions and all those which go with them\'97good, evil, life, iniquity\'97to those which the Sophists and Socrates tried to work out in their kind of pedagogical reflection. It is in the movement of indignation and accusation that. Amos professes "righteousness and justice\'94; these words indicate the direction of a demand more radical than any enumeration of faults. The examples enumerated\'97cruelty of leaders in war, luxury among the great, traffic in slaves, harshness towards the lowly\'97 are the scattered and convergent signs of one central evil that the prophet calls "iniquity.\'94 Thus the prophet aims at the wicked heart from which iniquity comes forth. Expressions such as "living\'94 and \'93dying\'94 designate this undivided root of the existence which is in question in justice and iniquity; the unlimited character of the demand reveals how deeply rooted human evil is. At the same time the prophet gives the man whom he calls to account a vis-a-vis, a neighbor, with, whom he is never finished, contrary to the limited demand of the ritual codes. Thus, the demand is unlimited with respect to its transcendent origin, with respect to its existential root, with respect to others, with respect to those lowly ones in whom the appeal for "righteousness and justice\'94 is incarnated. Such is the ethical distance that indignation creates in the very heart of the Covenant. Each accusation, in pointing to the seat of iniquity, is a summons to a conversion more complete than any partial correction: "Seek the Eternal and you shall live.\'94 To seek and to live\'97these two words indicate the radical level of the conversion\'97, radical as the evil is radical.\
\
Segment 1222: 1.	In the first place, the faith of the Christian believer is not concerned primarily with an interpretation of evil, its nature, its origin, and its end; the Christian does not say: I believe in sin, but: I believe in the remission of sins; sin gets its full meaning only retrospectively, from the present instant of \'93justification,\'94 in the language of St. Paul; on this point we have insisted sufficiently at the end of our study of the trilogy defilement-sin-guilt. It follows that the description of sin and the symbolization of its origin by means of the myth belong to the faith only secondarily and derivatively, as the best counterpart of a gospel of deliverance and hope. It is not without reason that we repeat this, in opposition to the tendency, issuing from Augustinianism, to confer upon the "dogma of original sin\'94 the same sort of authority as upon justification by faith in the death and resurrection of Christ; like the church of the first centuries, we regard the interpretation of sin as a part of the \'93prolegomena of the faith,\'94 rather than as a part of the "deposit of the faith.\'94 All our effort to relate the dogma of original sin to the Adamic myth, and the latter to the penitential experience of Israel and of the Apostolic church, points in the same direction; in making apparent the intentional relation of the dogma to the myth and of the myth to the confession of sins, we have confirmed the subordination of the dogma of original sin to the preaching of salvation. The bond that unites the Adamic myth to the \'93Christo-logical\'94 nucleus of the faith is a bond of suitability; the symbolic description of man, in the doctrine of sin, suits the announcement of salvation, in the doctrine of justification and regeneration. To understand that bond of suitability is already to give a reason for the belief accorded to the Biblical symbolization of human evil.\
\
------Topic 1------\
Word Distribution: [('man', 0.017271977), ('myth', 0.013518624), ('god', 0.008493296), ('soul', 0.0069261403), ('order', 0.005519592), ('consciousness', 0.0051297024), ('history', 0.0049173865), ('punishment', 0.004682101), ('sense', 0.0043596835), ('guilt', 0.0037696247)]\
\
Segment 821: 2.	The emancipation of history from the \'93cultuai-ritual\'94 drama is the second aspect of that obscure mutation which affects all the images inherited from the ideology of the King. A purely historical combat takes the place of the theogonic combat. The Exodus\'97that is to say, the departure from Egypt\'97the key event of the whole Biblical theology of history, has acquired a consistency of its own, a new signification with regard to the primordial creation; it is an event without any reference in principle to any drama of creation. The Exodus, as we have seen, itself became a source of \'93symbolization\'94 for the whole Hebrew experience of deliverance from sins, which were themselves compared to the servitude in Egypt; it is History, and no longer the drama of creation, that becomes the active center of symbolism. At the same time, the Enemy ceases to represent primeval chaos; he undergoes a sort of reduction to the purely historical, as a function of the action of Yahweh. Egypt in relation to the Exodus; the Philistines in relation ' to the settlement in Canaan are now simply components of the history of Israel. Thus, one sees the image of the sea-monster itself turn from the cosmic to the historical when it enters into the field of attraction of the new Volkerkampfmythus \
\
Segment 1359: That the dizziness of desire must be understood thus is already suggested by the Gratylus. There we find an allusion to an active-passive dizziness that escapes from a literal interpretation of the body-prison and already belongs to an interpretation of evil as a positive movement of the soul. Reflecting on the perversion of language, the Cratylus evokes the figure\'97still mythical\'97of a drunken legislator as the source of the aberrant meanings. If there is a language of becomings if mobilism\'97itself a perversion of philosophy \'97finds words to express itself and finally to engender itself in expressing itself, that is because the initiators of that illusion \'93have themselves fallen into a sort of whirlpool where they are agitated and confused, and they have dragged us in after them\'94 (439c),\
\
Segment 1134: in our present life in the condensed form of a superimposition; if fragment 133 of Pindar represents Orphism correctly/ the soul of the sleeping wakes and the soul of the waking sleeps. Soul and body, then, have inverse possibilities, which conceal each other. The soul is the witness of the other world, hidden while we are awake in this life and revealed in dreams, ecstasies, love, and death. The circularity of death and life and the coincidence of their inverted values give the body-tomb a fullness of meaning. If one life conceals the other, we must say with fragment 62 of Heraclitus: \'93Immortals, mortals; mortals, immortals; our life is their death and our death is their life,\'94 and with the verses of Euripides cited in Plato\'92s Gorgias (492#):\
\
Segment 407: On the one hand, guilt implies what may be called a judgment of personal imputation of evil; this individualization of guilt breaks with the "we\'94 of the confession of sins. The Jewish prophets of the Exile are witnesses to this change from communal sin to individual guilt, and the change corresponds to a definite historical situation. The preaching of sin had represented a mode of prophetic summons in which the whole people was exhorted to remember a collective deliverance, that of the Exodus, and to fear a collective threat, that of the Day of Yahweh. But now that the evil hour has arrived, now that the national - state is destroyed and the people deported, the same preaching which had been able to appeal for a collective reform has become a cause for despair; it has lost all the force of a summons and become nihilistic in its import. From the moment when the preaching of communal sin no longer signifies that a choice is open, but that fate has closed the door on an entire people, it is the preaching of individual sin, of personal guilt, that has the value of hope. For if sin is individual, salvation can be equally so. Even if the Exodus from Egypt could not be repeated in an exodus from Babylon, even if the Return was to be indefinitely postponed, there would still be hope for each man.\
\
Segment 423: sonalistic relation between God and man that raises the counterpole of an accused subjectivity; it is the ethics of a city of men that constitutes the focus of a reasonable indictment. Of course, this process still evolves on the fringes of religious consciousness; the city remains a \'93holy\'94 magnitude; its charge of sacredness in the classical epoch remains such that injustice is still synonymous with impiety. Inversely, impiety and even impurity were never spoken of in Greece without reference to injustice. Whichever one you start with, the three factors of purity, holiness, and justice constantly encroach upon one another at the height of the classical epoch. It must be said that the passage from one to the other was never marked, in the Hellenic consciousness, by crises comparable to the crisis produced in Israel by prophetic preaching; the taste of the poets and, above all, of the tragedians for archaic situations, the literary and theatrical revival of the old myths of defilement and purification, make the interferences among the various notions even more inextricable. It must be acknowledged that if we had only the testimony of Greece, we could never reach even a slightly coherent idea of the typological succession of defilement, sin, and guilt.\
\
Segment 401: tant to measure, although the novelty and the crisis issue from the deepening of the feeling of sin. On the one hand, the feeling of sin is a feeling of guilt; guiltiness is the burden of sin: it is the loss of the bond with the origin, insofar as that loss is felt. In this sense guilt is the achieved internality of sin. This internalization is the fruit of the deepening of the demand that is addressed to man. That deepening, we remember, is double: in becoming ethical and no longer only ritual, the Interdiction raises up a subjective pole of responsibility that can no longer be only one who answers for the sanction, one who is responsible in the elementary sense of a subject of punishment, but a center of decision, an author of acts. That is not all: the Interdiction not only passes from the ritual to the ethical; it becomes unlimited as the demand for perfection which goes beyond any enumeration of duties or virtues. This call to \'93perfection\'94 reveals, behind acts, the depths of possible existence. In fact, just as man is called to a unique perfection that surpasses the multiplicity of his obligations, he is revealed to himself as the author not only of his many acts, but of the motives of his acts and, beyond the motives, of the most radical possibilities which are suddenly reduced to the pure and simple alternative: God or Nothing. We have previously evoked the \'93Deuteronomic choice\'94: \'93I have placed before you life and death; choose the good and you shall live.\'94 This call to a radical choice raises up, over against itself, a subjective pole, a respondent, no longer in the sense of a bearer of punishment, but in the sense of an existent capable of embracing his whole life and considering it as one undivided destiny, hanging upon a simple alternative. Thus the prophetic call transformed the Covenant from a simple juridical contract between Yahweh and his people into a personal accusation and adjuration. There is henceforth an \'93I,\'94 because there is a \'93thou\'94 to whom the Prophet addresses himself in the name of God.\
\
Segment 513: From these two reciprocal propositions\'97the Torah is revelation and the revelation is Torah\'97are derived all the traits of scrupulousness and of the consciousness of guilt that is characteristic of scrupulousness. For the scrupulous conscience the commandment is \'93holy, right, and good\'94; the commandment is the past absolute of such a conscience, the completed revelation of its meaning, although this revelation in the past is accessible only by means of custom, exegesis, and casuistry, intelligent and humble, which are the living present of scrupulousness. The fundamental option of the scrupulous conscience is thus exactly the reverse of that of a hazarded existence, in the sense of the \'93glorious liberty of the\
\
Segment 1181: this Titanic origin of man (it is true that they do not say anything; about Dionysos\'92 return to life either); and sometimes they pass over, in silence, the sinister repast, although it is essential to the anthropogonic myth. Thus we arrive at Proclus\'92 (fifth century; Kern, O. F,, 210) and Olympiodorus (sixth century; O. F., 209, 211-12, 220 f.) versions of the birth of mankind from the ashes., of the Titans; it is here that the myth gets its final form: man is; the inheritor both of the violent nature of the Titans, murderers of: Dionysos, and of the nature of Dionysos, with which the Titans; identified themselves by their horrible feast. Thus the myth is com-/ pleted at the moment when the cycle of the Neo-Platonic philoso-, phy reaches its end.\
\
Segment 553: The counterproof of our analysis would be furnished by the description of the specific failing of the scrupulous conscience. That failing is \'93hypocrisy\'94; hypocrisy is, so to speak, the grimace of scrupulousness. Everyone is familiar with the accusation ascribed to Jesus in the Synoptic Gospels, particularly Matthew\'92s, the most anti-Pharisean of the three (Chap. 23): \'93Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!\'94 We cannot understand the Pharisees if we start from this attack; but we can arrive at it by starting from what we have described as the greatness of Pharisaism; we can arrive at it by a sort of schematic genesis of \'93hypocrisy,\'94 starting from \'93scrupulousness\'94; scrupulousness turns toward hypocrisy as soon as the scrupulous conscience ceases to be in movement.\
\
Segment 950: This way of understanding is supported by the historical experience of the Jewish people. So far is the Adamic myth from being the point of departure for their experience of sin and guilt that it presupposes that experience and marks its maturity. That is why it was possible to understand the experience and to interpret its fundamental symbols\'97deviation, revolt, going astray, perdition, captivity\'97without recourse to that myth. Our problem will be to understand what the \'93Adamic\'94 myth adds to those first symbols. In every way the addition is belated and, in certain respects, nonessential, as the history of Hebrew literature superabundantly proves. Adam is not an important figure in the Old Testament: the Prophets ignore him, various texts do, indeed, name Adam (subject of a verb in the plural) and the sons of Adam, but without allusion to the story of the fall; Abraham, the father of believers, and Noah, the father of mankind as recreated after the flood, are more important figures; and even for the editor of the account in Genesis it is not certain that Adam bears the entire responsibility for the evil in the world; he is perhaps only the first example of evil. In 2 Ben Sirach, author of Ecclesiasticus, and Wisdom allude to the account\
\
------Topic 2------\
Word Distribution: [('evil', 0.012812762), ('sin', 0.0100090075), ('man', 0.009096899), ('symbol', 0.0080786515), ('god', 0.0062397663), ('law', 0.0057101427), ('myth', 0.0051924568), ('consciousness', 0.0040893173), ('does', 0.0040499023), ('say', 0.0039650626)]\
\
Segment 1166: The drama of creation in which the new anthropogonic episode is set is not an indifferent frame; it imposes its presence and its general meaning on the new myth in a twofold manner. In the first place, it gives a cosmic dimension, an ontological depth to the misfortune which afflicts the soul. That misfortune is rooted in the pain of being, represented by the violent succession of the generations of great gods; the theogony gives Grime, Discord, and Guile a prehuman significance by associating them with the origin of things. In this regard, the figure of the Titans, which will be the pivot of the new myth, is a part of that pain of being; the Titan is the figure through which human evil is rooted in prehuman evil, at the same time as the pain of being is turned in the direction of anthropology through the same figure. But, in particular, the drama of creation preached to the Orphics already implies a possible interpretation of evil from which the strictly \'91'Orphic\'94 myth of the fault of the Titans stands out in contrast. The interpretation of evil through the theogony remained obscure in the poem of Hesiod, who hardly did more than to put the disparate primordial figures in a series. Some of those figures\'97Kronos, Ouranos, Zeus\'97 are divinities from an earlier time who were now joined by means of dynastic succession, procreation, or murder; others\'97Night, Death, War\'97are aspects deemed primordial in our experience, joined together by a filiation comparable to the preceding; and others, finally, are regions or elements of nature such as Earth and\
\
Segment 945: 1A clear attitude is preferable to the attitude of authors like A. M. Dubarle (op. cit.\} pp. 45-60) who try to evade the choice between history and myth and to find in this story \'93a history of a special type, which employs traditional imagery as a means of expression while profoundly transforming its import\'94 (p. 49). It is true that Israel, whose religion is founded on an historical event, the exodus from Egypt, could not appeal to some non-temporal "archetype\'94 for an explanation of evil, but only to events supposed to be the source of the present; but to say that Israel rediscovered past events by faith is inevitably to come back to the idea that Adam was a real person and that the fall was an event that really took place. We must keep the idea of event as a symbol of the break between two ontological regimes and abandon the idea of past fact. In particular, we must recognize the mythical character of the figure of the ancestor of the human race, supposed to be for all mankind what the eponymous ancestor is for Moab, Edom, etc. It is in this schematization that there arises the idea of a sin supposed to be first and inherited, as well as the false rationalizations to which it gave rise.\
\
Segment 1193: Of course the Orphic movement itself seems not to have been capable of going explicitly beyond \'93myth\'94 to \'93philosophy\'94; even on the level of the Upb? Aoyos the Orphic reform, as we have seen, does indeed bear on \'93meanings,\'94 as Guthrie says, but it remains a prisoner of cosmogonic imagery. But Orphism is not only a jffios Aoyos ; it is also a /?ios, a \'93way of life.\'94 This \'93way of life\'94 is to the future what the myth is to the past; as the myth is the recollection of a human evil that is older than man, so the Orphic Upos is the prophecy of a deliverance that is more human than man. And just as the myth wavers between theogonic imagination and philosophical reflection, so the Orphic filo? hesitates between the old ritual purification and a new sort of purification in spirit and in truth. On the one hand, it looks to the teletai preached by so many other professional purifiers, so many other mendicant soothsayers and prophets of the sort judged so severely by Plato in Book II of the Republic:\
\
Segment 194: 7 For the general relation between the idea of sin and the idea of Covenant, see Eichrodt\'92s magistral Theologte des alien Testaments (Leipzig, 1933-39, 3 vols.). I refer in particular to Vol. Ill, $ 23, \'93Siinde und Vergebung,\'94 See also the excellent synthesis in Ed. Jacob, Les themes essentiels d\'92une tkSologie de VAncien Testament. (Neuch&tel, 1955), pp. 75-82, 91-94, 170-77, and 226-40.\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 696: What is signified by this possibility, this terrible possibility? Negatively, that man is not the origin of evil; man finds evil and continues it. The question will be to know whether the confession of man as sinner will have the power to take up the origin of evil completely into the evil will of which he accuses himself and of which he recognizes himself as author. Positively, that evil is as old as the oldest of beings; that evil is the past of being; that it is that which was overcome by the establishment of the world; that God is the future of being. The question will be to know whether the\
\
Segment 677: 3.	Between the myth of chaos, belonging to the creation-drama, and the myth of the fall, we shall insert an intermediate type that may be called \'93tragic,\'94 because it attains its full manifestation all at once in Greek tragedy. Behind the tragic vision of man we shall look for an implicit, and perhaps unavowable, theology: the tragic theology of the god who tempts, blinds, leads astray. Here the fault appears to be indistinguishable from the very existence of the tragic hero; he does not commit the fault, he is guilty. What, then, can salvation be? Not the \'93remission of sins,\'94 for there is no pardon for an inevitable fault. Nevertheless, there is a tragic salvation, which consists in a sort of aesthetic deliverance issuing from the tragic spectacle itself, internalized in the depths of existence and converted into pity with respect to oneself. Salvation of this sort makes freedom coincide with understood necessity.\
\
Segment 546: A third trait must be added to this double process of juridicization and ritualization of the scrupulous conscience: under the regime of a thoroughgoing and willing heteronomy, obligation has an enumerative and cumulative character opposed to the simplicity and sobriety of the command to love God and men. What strikes the reader who penetrates into the rabbinical literature is the incessant multiplication of the collections of interpretative decrees; the collection of halackoth gives the Mishnah, which, confronted with the Torah and explicated in its turn, gives the Gemara, which, joined to the Mishnah, constitutes the Babylonian and Palestinian Talmud. Now this process represents the movement of every conscience for which commandments do not cease to multiply; the scrupulous conscience is an increasingly articulated and subtle conscience that forgets nothing and adds incessantly to its obligations; it is a manifold and sedimented conscience that finds salvation only in movement; it accumulates behind itself an enormous past that makes tradition; it is alive only at its point, at the forward end of tradition, where it \'93interprets,\'94 in new circumstances, equivocations or contradictions. This is not a conscience that begins or begins\
\
Segment 193: Before God does not mean before the Wholly Other, as the Hegelian analysis of the unhappy consciousness began to make it mean. That analysis is, strictly speaking, misleading; the initial moment is not the separation of existence from its meaning, the emptiness and the vanity of a human consciousness that has emptied itself of its substance for the advantage of an absolute that has become its vampire; the initial moment is not the nothingness of man before the being and the all of God. The initial moment is not the \'93unhappy consciousness,\'94 but the \'93Covenant,\'94 the Bent of the Jews. It is in a preliminary dimension of encounter and dialogue that there can appear such a thing as the absence and the silence of God, corresponding to the vain and hollow existence of\
\
Segment 33: Moreover, the merely semantic understanding that we can acquire from the vocabulary of fault is an exercise preparatory to the hermeneutics of myths. Indeed, it is itself already a hermeneutics, for the most primitive and least mythical language is already ' a symbolic language: defilement is spoken of under the symbol of a stain or blemish, sin under the symbol of missing the mark, of a tortuous road, of trespass, etc. In short, the preferred language of fault appears to be indirect and based on imagery. There is something quite astonishing in this: the consciousness of self seems to constitute itself at its lowest level by means of symbolism and to work out an abstract language only subsequently, by means of a spontaneous hermeneutics of its primary symbols. We shall see later the extensive implications of this assertion. For the moment it is enough to have established that the \'93re-enactment\'94 in sympathetic imagination always moves in the element of language as reflection reverts from gnosis to myth and from myth to the primaiy symbolic expressions brought into play in the confession of fault. This rever-. sion to the primary symbols permits us henceforth to consider myths and gnosis as secondary and tertiary symbols, the interpretation of which rests on the interpretation of the primary symbols.\
\
------Topic 3------\
Word Distribution: [('body', 0.010502283), ('soul', 0.008636714), ('myth', 0.008583704), ('man', 0.005705506), ('does', 0.0048596547), ('vision', 0.0047947112), ('human', 0.0043834215), ('tragic', 0.00427389), ('shall', 0.0040830467), ('existence', 0.0035738053)]\
\
Segment 259: I .will take away my prey, and none shall rescue him.\
\
Segment 387: <31>	Ed, Jacob attaches the sacrificial ritual to the themes of \'93buying back\'94 and of \'93ransom,\'94 and finds the common nucleus in the idea of substitution. He subordinates the symbolization of the death of the guilty one to the communication of divine life to the sinner: \'93thus the essence of the sacrifice is not the death of the victim, but the offering of his life\'94 (op. ct'i., p. 237). In a neighboring sense, von Rad quotes Ohler, Theologie des alien Testaments: \'93In the sacrifice no act of punitive justice is performed, and the altar can in no way be compared to a tribunal.\'94 Von Rad adds: \'93Expiation, then, is not a punitive act, but a method of salvation,\'94 op. cit., p. 270.\
\
Segment 1093: of the \'93spiritual\'92* and the \'93earthly\'94 (or \'93the psychic\'94) than to the Hebrew tradition. It is above all the other Adamological passage in St. Paul (I Cor. 15:35-55) that poses the problem: \'93The first man Adam was made a living soul: the last Adam is a spirit who gives life. , . . The first man, sprung from the earth, is earthy; the second man is from heaven.\'94 On this hypothesis, we shall attempt further on to account for the attraction of the Adamic type in the direction of the type of the exiled soul (cf. below, Chap. V, $ 4); what we have said about the dualism of \'93spirit\'94 and \'93flesh\'94 in St. Paul (Part I, Chap, III, 5 4) has prepared the way. For the moment, let us say only that St. Paul does not break with the Hebrew tradition of the Son of Man, who there, too, is \'93heavenly\'94 (Dan. 7:13). Furthermore, as Hiring has suggested \{op. cit., p. 153), followed by CuIImann \{op. cit.\} pp. 144-45), the key to the text might be to regard it as a polemic against the interpretation of Philo, who distinguished two \'93first men,\'94 the first heavenly and perfect (according to Genesis 1:26), the second earthly and fallen (according to Genesis 2:7). For St. Paul, it is the first who is earthly, and there is no other first; it is the second who is heavenly, and he is the last. The movement, the progression, from the earthly Adam to the heavenly Adam is only more striking; there is no longer, behind us, a \'93heavenly\'94 Adam; the perfect man is wholly signified by the Man to Gome.\
\
Segment 430: In becoming rationalized, punishment, in turn, caused a like differentiation with regard to guilt. In view of this regressive movement from punishment to guilt, we must persist in the assertion-that the first coherent distinction between "voluntary\'94 and \'93involuntary,\'94 such as we find in the legislation of Draco, was not a result of introspection, not a psychological modality of \'93know thyself.\'94 It was a discrimination a priori, imposed upon ancient ideas of violence and presumption, to make possible the institutional distinctions that found expression in the reorganization of tribunals: to the Areopagus, henceforth, went \'93voluntary\'94 murders, vengeance for which was taken over by the city from the family; to the Palladion, certain debatable \'93involuntary\'92 crimes, which might be excused or punished by exile; to the Delphinion, homicides that were clearly \'93involuntary,\'94 having occurred in games or in war. The tribunal goes before, psychology follows after, And the psychology itself is rarely direct; it takes the roundabout way of poetry\'97gnomic, elegiac, tragic\'97which, in various ways, evolved a ympr/, a meditation on oneself and a subtle analysis of acts. In particular, the imaginative treatment of legendary crimes, which tragedy took over from the epic, provided an opportunity for reflection on the \'93voluntary\'94 and \'93involuntary\'94 that took the path of meditation on defilement and on blindness caused by the gods. Thus the aged. Oedipus considers the problem\
\
Segment 1022: We can give a first answer\'97which remains only a partial answer \'97to that question: in the figure of the serpent, the Yahwist may have been dramatizing an important aspect of the experience of temptation\'97the experience of quasi-externality. Temptation would be a sort of seduction from without; it would develop into compliance with the apparition that lays siege to the \'93heart\'94; and, finally, to sin would be to yield. The serpent, then, would be a part of ourselves which we do not recognize; he would be the seduction of ourselves by ourselves, projected into the seductive object. This interpretation is so much the less irrelevant as it has already been invoked by the apostle James: \'93Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed\'94 (1:13-14). Likewise, St. Paul identified the quasi-externality of desire with the \'93flesh,\'94 with the law of sin that is in my members. The serpent, then, represents this passive aspect of temptation, hovering on the border between the outer and the inner; the Decalogue calls it \'93covetousness\'94 (Tenth Commandment). We might even say, following St. James\'92s line of thought, that this pseudo-outer becomes an alien reality only through bad faith; arguing from the fact that our freedom is beset by desire, we seek to exculpate ourselves and make ourselves appear innocent by accusing an Other. Thus we allege the irresistibility of our passions in order to justify ourselves. That is what the woman does when she is asked by God, after the fatal deed: \'93Why have you done this?\'94 She answers: \'93The serpent beguiled me.\'94 Bad faith, then, seizes upon the quasiexternality of desire in order to make it an alibi for freedom. The artfulness of the excuse is that it puts temptation, which had been hovering on the border between the inside and the outside, completely outside. Carrying out this interpretation to the end, we\
\
Segment 1349: But this trend from the Adamic scheme toward the theme of the exiled soul would not have been possible if the latter, on its side, had not revealed an extraordinary potency for symbolic transposition. Several times we have alluded to the symbolic richness of the oldest of the symbols of evil, the symbol of defilement. Defilement is always more than a stain, and so it can signify analogically all the degrees of the experience of evil, even to the most elaborate concept of the servile will. Now the over-determination of the symbol of the body is not less than that of the symbol of defilement, for the two processes are inseparable. One can understand why, If the essence of the symbol of defilement is constituted by the themes of positiveness, externality, and non-destructive alteration, the body, in its turn, can serve as a symbol for the symbol; it, too, is brought into existence, it is on the border between the inner and the outer, it is essentially a producer of effects. That is why \'93explanation\'94 of evil by the body always presupposes a degree of symbolic transposition of the body. Without this, the body would be simply an alibi for guilt, as it is when someone invokes character or heredity to excuse himself. The explanation of evil by the body is not an objective explanation, but an etiological myth; that is to say, it is ultimately a symbol of the second degree. But if that explanation aims at becoming scientific, as in modem times, then the ethical character of evil action disappears; man cannot impute evil to himself and at the same time refer it to the body, without treating the body as a symbol of certain aspects of the experience of the evil that he confesses. The symbolic transmutation of the body is a necessary condition for its belonging to the mythics of evil.\
\
Segment 809: In the second place, the paradigm of the King can be \'93histori-cized\'94\'97and, in the same measure, \'93demythologized\'94\'97in virtue of the same combats that put to the test his kingship, established from the beginning. We have seen above that the King does not only \'93re-enact\'94 the drama of creation, he evolves a genuine \'93history\'94; from the ritual combat one passes insensibly to the historical combat. Royal laments\'97for example. Psalm 89:39-52, which celebrates in the minor mode the sufferings of the king\'97favored this historicization more than anything else, while the hymn of enthronement leads more naturally to the primordial establishment of the kingship. While it revives the primordial anguish of the time when chaos had not yet been overcome, the royal lament plunges into the thick of genuine historical perils. It is David, fleeing before his son Absalom, who cries: \'93Yahweh, how are they increased that trouble me l Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul, There is no salvation for him in his God\'94 (Ps. 3:1-2). \'93How long, Yahweh, wilt thou forget me? Unto the end?\'94 (Ps. 13:1). At the limit, the theme may be \'93de-mythologized\'94 and \'93moralized\'94 to such a degree that it loses all connection with any precise history; the faithful of Judaism and Christianity could legitimately interpret \'93the adversary,\'94 \'93the oppressor,\'94 in the sense of adversity\'97that is to say, misfortune\'97or of diabolical temptation\'97that is to say, temptation by the Evil One. But the "demythologization\'94 of the Enemy and his \'93historicization\'94 in the guise of Egypt, or the Philistines, or the Assyrians, were a necessary stage on the road to this \'93moral\'94 and once again \'93mythical\'94 transposition of the Adversary. Moreover, the Christians gave a \'93Christological\'94 interpretation to the lament of the innocent one persecuted, closer to the \'93suffering servant,\'94 according to Second Isaiah, than to the king threatened by an historical enemy: \'93My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?\'94 (Ps. 22:1). In this cry, the epitome of all distress^ in this lamentation of\
\
Segment 311: The Biblical writers read this repenting of wrath into history itself, into the course of events which are interpreted as a divine pedagogy at work. Sometimes it is the postponement of a disaster, the end of a plague, a healing, which are immediately understood as \'93pardon.\'94 Thus the schema of pardon is taken up into a theology of history, like most of the Hebraic schemata. Sometimes, more subtly, pardon is discovered not in an actual and even physical deliverance, but in the punishment itself, which, although painful and even cruel, loses its aspect of irrevocable condemnation (it is thus in the denouement of the crime of David, reported in II Samuel 12:13-14); pardon does not abolish suffering, but grants a respite which is interpreted as a horizon determined by divine patience. Another idea can then enter into this conception of pardon which is expressed by means of punishment: in addition to mitigation of the punishment, pardon appears as the transformation of an obstacle into a test; punishment becomes the instrument of awareness, the path of confession, Pardon is already fully evident in this restored capacity of knowing oneself in one\'92s true situation in the bosom of the Covenant. Thus the penalty, felt as an affliction, is a part of punishment and of pardon at; the same time. By the same token, \'93pardon\'94 is \'93return\'94; for return, a parte Dei, is nothing else than the taking away of blame, the suppression of the charge of sin: \'93I have acknowledged my sin to thee, I have not concealed my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Eternal! And thou hast wiped out the penalty of my sin\'94 (Ps. 32:5).\
\
Segment 1341: reason and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members\'94; sometimes the body itself is called \'93body of death.\'94 But it is enough to extend the line that passes through the symbol of captivity and the expressions of Jeremiah and Ezekiel to reconstruct the Pauline theme. As we have already said, the Pauline concept of the \'93flesh\'94 and the \'93body\'94 designates not a substantial reality, but an existential category, which not only covers the whole field of the passions, but includes the moralizing will that boasts in the law. It is the alienated self as a whole, in opposition to the "desires of the Spirit,\'94 which constitute the inward man. The cleavage between me and myself and the projection into externality of this self that is alienated from itself is the key to the Pauline conception of the flesh. There is no need to dwell further on this genesis of St. Paul\'92s symbolism of sin. What concerns us here is that that symbolism, although it can be explained in its essentials by the Hebrew tradition, gives significant pledges to the Hellenistic tradition of a soul exiled in a body that is evil from its origin, and prepares the way for all the subsequent contacts of Christianity with Neo-Platonism and for all the misunderstandings which result therefrom. Step by step, the Biblical theme of sin tends towards a quasi-dualism, accredited by the inner experience of cleavage and alienation.\
\
Segment 857: We shall call pre-tragic those themes which are anterior to the drama and the spectacle. The first and principal pre-tragic theme is not specifically Greek; it appears in all cultures, every time that the initiative in fault is traced back into the divine and that this divine initiative works through the weakness of man and appears as divine possession. Under this quite undifferentiated form, it is indistinguishable from the preceding theme, since in both of them the principle of evil is as primordial as the principle of good; and so in the figure of the Babylonian god Enlil, whose ambiguous might was the source both of devastation and of good counsel, we could see the beginning of the first and of the second type. But a typological differentiation occurs in the direction of a myth of chaos, enveloped in a drama of creation, when the principle of evil is polarly opposed to the divine as its original Enemy; while the ambiguous figure tends toward the tragic when such a polarization does not occur and when the same divine power appears both as\
\
------Topic 4------\
Word Distribution: [('myth', 0.013554468), ('god', 0.010623426), ('man', 0.0095087085), ('sin', 0.008718232), ('evil', 0.0064349356), ('guilt', 0.0043898216), ('defilement', 0.0037472195), ('suffering', 0.0035039599), ('end', 0.003358219), ('new', 0.0033564959)]\
Segment 1290: It was I who darkened your counsels by utterances without seme.\
\
Segment 809: In the second place, the paradigm of the King can be \'93histori-cized\'94\'97and, in the same measure, \'93demythologized\'94\'97in virtue of the same combats that put to the test his kingship, established from the beginning. We have seen above that the King does not only \'93re-enact\'94 the drama of creation, he evolves a genuine \'93history\'94; from the ritual combat one passes insensibly to the historical combat. Royal laments\'97for example. Psalm 89:39-52, which celebrates in the minor mode the sufferings of the king\'97favored this historicization more than anything else, while the hymn of enthronement leads more naturally to the primordial establishment of the kingship. While it revives the primordial anguish of the time when chaos had not yet been overcome, the royal lament plunges into the thick of genuine historical perils. It is David, fleeing before his son Absalom, who cries: \'93Yahweh, how are they increased that trouble me l Many are they that rise up against me. Many there be which say of my soul, There is no salvation for him in his God\'94 (Ps. 3:1-2). \'93How long, Yahweh, wilt thou forget me? Unto the end?\'94 (Ps. 13:1). At the limit, the theme may be \'93de-mythologized\'94 and \'93moralized\'94 to such a degree that it loses all connection with any precise history; the faithful of Judaism and Christianity could legitimately interpret \'93the adversary,\'94 \'93the oppressor,\'94 in the sense of adversity\'97that is to say, misfortune\'97or of diabolical temptation\'97that is to say, temptation by the Evil One. But the "demythologization\'94 of the Enemy and his \'93historicization\'94 in the guise of Egypt, or the Philistines, or the Assyrians, were a necessary stage on the road to this \'93moral\'94 and once again \'93mythical\'94 transposition of the Adversary. Moreover, the Christians gave a \'93Christological\'94 interpretation to the lament of the innocent one persecuted, closer to the \'93suffering servant,\'94 according to Second Isaiah, than to the king threatened by an historical enemy: \'93My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?\'94 (Ps. 22:1). In this cry, the epitome of all distress^ in this lamentation of\
\
Segment 948: An echo of the discussions that shook Gatholic exegesis at the beginning of the century can be found in Y. Laurent, \'93Le caract^re historique de Gen&se, 2-3, dans i\'92ex\'a3g\'a3se fran$aise au tournant du XIX suicle,\'94 in Analecta Lovaniensta Biblica et Or tent alia, 1947, pp. 37-69; justice is rendered to the works of F. Lenormant (1880-84); and the eclectic attempt of Father M. J. Lagrange, in his famous article in the. Revue biblique (1897), \'93L\'92innocence et le p\'a3ch6,\'94 is well characterized. When we reread that notable article today, we are struck at the same time by its boldness in detail and its timidity as a whole. Father Lagrange rejects both literalism and the interpretation which he calls allegorical, and regards the story of the fall as \'93a true history told in a popular or symbolic way\'94 (p. 358): \'93It has always been understood in the Church that this very true history was not a history like others, but a history clothed in figures\'97metaphors, symbols\'97or popular language\'94 (p, 361); hence the attempt to separate the \'93substantial elements\'94 and the \'93symbolic forms\'94 (p. 361). Like Origen and Gajetan, he extends the role of symbolism very far. But it is hard to see how the story as a whole could have a bearing on real history when all the circumstances, taken one by one, are interpreted symbolically (pp. 34358). Perhaps Father Lagrange has too narrow an idea of the symbol, which he seems not to distinguish from allegory; thus, faced with the alternative, allegory or history, he chooses history, while distinguishing the form and the content of the story. Nevertheless, it is true that Father Lagrange did see, long before we were acquainted with the whole Babylonian background of the creation-stories, that what is significant is not what is corroborated by historical parallels, but what is without parallel. Thus he broke decisively with the sort of apologetic exegesis which relied on such parallels to prove a so-called oral tradition descending from Adam to our first written sources. Moreover, Father Lagrange perceived that the genius of the sacred writer consisted very often in transforming into symbols something that had been literal belief in the popular imagination. That insight goes very far, but it is not carried out to its ultimate consequences. Still, Father Lagrange does write: \'93Symbolic language does not have the same laws as familiar language and should not be interpreted by the same method\'94 (p. 354).\
\
Segment 997: of this kind: the serpent is the symbol of the gods of vegetation; without being the representative of sex as such, he represents the temptation of the divinities that sacralize sex. Coppens is even more precise: the fault must have to do with the only commandment reported in Genesis before the fall, the command to procreate. Thus the serpent would represent the temptation to place sexual life under the influence of the licentious pagan cults and so to surrender it to dissoluteness (op. cit., pp. 13-28, 73-91, and, in the same collection, Analecta Lovaniensia Biblica et Orientalia, II, 8, pp. 396-408), It must be said that M. Coppens rests his interpretation on a vast and solid inquiry concerning the significance of the serpent as associated with the divinities of vegetation (ibid., pp. 91-117 and 409-42). But, in my opinion, he passes too quickly over the question whether it is really the existence of sexual transgression that the sacred author teaches. When he encounters this question, which ought to dominate the discussion, he answers in the negative: "Does the sacred author teach the existence of the sexual transgression of which we have spoken? I think not. The development of that theme is muted. It was much clearer, I think, in the source known to the author. The hagiographer dropped the theme; but there remain some traces of it which must be made out as in a palimpsest. Or one may suppose that he did not abandon it entirely for his own part, but that he abstained from inculcating it. He may have contented himself with insinuating it, either because he preferred not to rend the veil or because he deliberately made it thicker\'94 (ibid., p. 26). These remarks make me think that the sexual interpretation is a recessive interpretation of the sin of Adam. If it belongs to the most archaic level, the editor has suppressed it not in order to conceal the meaning, but in order to say something much more important. It seems to me that the intention of the text is to reduce the content of the fault to the extent of making it a peccadillo, in order to emphasize the fact that man has broken the filial dependence that united him to his Father. That is why, finally, the question of the tree is not important, as Zimmerli has clearly seen (pp. 165-66, 235-38). The decisive argument, in my opinion, is the place of this story, at the head of the series formed by Genesis 1\'9711. The sin of Adam is the first, in the sense that it is at the root of all the others: Adam breaks with God, as Gain separates himself from his brother and the men of Babel are confounded. We shall take up this problem again in Book III, when we examine the psychoanalytic interpretation of guilt; it will then be possible to discover the positive value of the sexual interpretation and to assign Coppens\'92 interpretation to its right place, which is not that of intentional instruction.	\'92\
\
Segment 290: We have a first root (chattat) which means missing the target, to which we can relate a second symbol, that of a tortuous road (\uc0\u9632 awon). These two roots, joined to one another, forecast the concept of the a-nomalous, a purely formal concept in which divergence from order, deviation from the straight road, are considered without regard to the motive of the act and the inner quality of the agent. The Greek d\{xdprqfiat which furnished the abstract concept of sin through the Latin peccatum, is akin to the first Hebrew root. On the other hand, the symbolism of the \'93way\'94 or \'93road\'94 is well known from Py thagoreanism; besides, it is almost universal. The symbolism of a journey is akin to it and furnishes the controlling schema for the Prelude of the Poem of Parmenides: \'93The horses which draw me carry me along, answering to the ardor of my desire. For in guiding me, they have led me along the famous route\'97of the Goddess who conducts men possessing the light of knowledge through all cities.\'94 It is true that among the Greeks the symbol of the \'93way\'94 did not produce as distinctly as among the Hebrews the symbol of a circuitous, curving, tortuous way. The symbol of error or going astray, more adapted to the problem of truth than to that of ethical obedience, takes its place. On the other hand, we shall presently discover something like a symbol of going astray among the Hebrews.\
\
Segment 685: 1	P. Dhorme, Choix de textes religieux assyro-babyloniens (Paris, 1907), pp. 3-81. R. Labat, Le Pohne babylonien de la creation (Paris, 1935). Heidel, The Babylonian Genesis and Old Testament Parallels (Chicago, 1942; 2d ed., 1951). The reference edition here will be the one in James B. Pritchard, ed., Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament (Princeton, 1950; 2d ed., 1955), pp. 60-72 (reproduced partially in his Anthology of Texts and Pictures, 1958, pp. 31\'9739, and completely in Isaac Mendelsohn, ed., The Religions of the Ancient Near East: Sumero-Akkadian Religious Texts and Ugaritic Epics, New York, 1955, pp. 17-47).\
\
Segment 1022: We can give a first answer\'97which remains only a partial answer \'97to that question: in the figure of the serpent, the Yahwist may have been dramatizing an important aspect of the experience of temptation\'97the experience of quasi-externality. Temptation would be a sort of seduction from without; it would develop into compliance with the apparition that lays siege to the \'93heart\'94; and, finally, to sin would be to yield. The serpent, then, would be a part of ourselves which we do not recognize; he would be the seduction of ourselves by ourselves, projected into the seductive object. This interpretation is so much the less irrelevant as it has already been invoked by the apostle James: \'93Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed\'94 (1:13-14). Likewise, St. Paul identified the quasi-externality of desire with the \'93flesh,\'94 with the law of sin that is in my members. The serpent, then, represents this passive aspect of temptation, hovering on the border between the outer and the inner; the Decalogue calls it \'93covetousness\'94 (Tenth Commandment). We might even say, following St. James\'92s line of thought, that this pseudo-outer becomes an alien reality only through bad faith; arguing from the fact that our freedom is beset by desire, we seek to exculpate ourselves and make ourselves appear innocent by accusing an Other. Thus we allege the irresistibility of our passions in order to justify ourselves. That is what the woman does when she is asked by God, after the fatal deed: \'93Why have you done this?\'94 She answers: \'93The serpent beguiled me.\'94 Bad faith, then, seizes upon the quasiexternality of desire in order to make it an alibi for freedom. The artfulness of the excuse is that it puts temptation, which had been hovering on the border between the inside and the outside, completely outside. Carrying out this interpretation to the end, we\
\
Segment 465: The Prophets presuppose this ethical and historical monotheism. Their challenges and their fulminations are not directed against it essentially, but against its being forgotten in times of historical success, in consequence of social injustice as well as of concessions to the religious syncretism of the surrounding world. The great work of \'93casuistry,\'94 which was to be characteristic of the scribes of the Exile and the Return, must have begun before the Exile. In contrast to the conceptualization and the systematization of Roman law, the Jewish mind was already proceeding by way of "a large collection of typical cases from which judges and students could draw analogies\'94 (S. W. Baron, ibid., p. 80). Thus, what is called Jewish legalism, although it is rather a genius for jurisprudence, develops traits which were strongly adumbrated before the Exile. Before the Exile, also, the abortive reform of Josiah, to which we owe the Deuteronomic legislation, is the first coherent anticipation of the attempt of the Pharisees to make a whole people, corporately and individually, lead an actual and effectively practical existence under the Law and by the Law. But Deutei -onomy still hovers at a distance from the real, like a utopia of daily life. The endeavor of the Pharisees and their scribes will be precisely to inscribe in reality this life under the Law and by the Law.\
\
Segment 293: Finally, another symbol (shagah), with apparently less emotional resonance, designates precisely the situation of having gone astray, of being lost, in which the sinner finds himself. But if the image of revolt is more forceful, the image of having gone astray is more radical, for it directly envisages a total situation, the state of being astray and lost, Thus, it forecasts the more modem symbols of alienation and dereliction; the interruption of the dialogue, having become a situation, makes man a being alien to his ontological place. The silence of God, the absence of God, are in a way a correlative symbol to the symbol of having gone astray, of being lost; for the being who has strayed is "abandoned\'94 by God. As one sees, the "error\'94 of the Poem of Parmenides is not without analogy, at least on the figurative level: \'93I put you on guard against that other way of investigation on which mortals without knowledge wander in every. direction, monsters with two heads. For in them impotence guides their unsteady minds in their breasts. They are pushed this way and that, deaf as well as blind, thrown into a stupor, a mob without judgment\'97for whom being and not being appear the same and not the same, and for whom the path of all things turns back upon its steps.\'94 But the problematics of Truth and Opinion separates \'93error\'94 according to Parmenides from \'93straying\'94 according to the Prophets of Israel no less than the tragic problem of the "jealousy\'94 of the gods just now separated Greek hybris from Hebrew pride. The structural relationship of the symbols nevertheless permits exchanges, even on the level of meanings. If it is true that error is more than intellectual error and is already moral fault, and if, on the other hand, there is no fault\
\
Segment 1349: But this trend from the Adamic scheme toward the theme of the exiled soul would not have been possible if the latter, on its side, had not revealed an extraordinary potency for symbolic transposition. Several times we have alluded to the symbolic richness of the oldest of the symbols of evil, the symbol of defilement. Defilement is always more than a stain, and so it can signify analogically all the degrees of the experience of evil, even to the most elaborate concept of the servile will. Now the over-determination of the symbol of the body is not less than that of the symbol of defilement, for the two processes are inseparable. One can understand why, If the essence of the symbol of defilement is constituted by the themes of positiveness, externality, and non-destructive alteration, the body, in its turn, can serve as a symbol for the symbol; it, too, is brought into existence, it is on the border between the inner and the outer, it is essentially a producer of effects. That is why \'93explanation\'94 of evil by the body always presupposes a degree of symbolic transposition of the body. Without this, the body would be simply an alibi for guilt, as it is when someone invokes character or heredity to excuse himself. The explanation of evil by the body is not an objective explanation, but an etiological myth; that is to say, it is ultimately a symbol of the second degree. But if that explanation aims at becoming scientific, as in modem times, then the ethical character of evil action disappears; man cannot impute evil to himself and at the same time refer it to the body, without treating the body as a symbol of certain aspects of the experience of the evil that he confesses. The symbolic transmutation of the body is a necessary condition for its belonging to the mythics of evil.\
\
------Topic 5------\
Word Distribution: [('myth', 0.012177783), ('evil', 0.010676253), ('man', 0.01054126), ('god', 0.010370941), ('tragic', 0.006402778), ('op', 0.0049839313), ('pp', 0.004316513), ('human', 0.0040144455), ('does', 0.0039651725), ('tragedy', 0.0038037181)]\
Segment 948: An echo of the discussions that shook Gatholic exegesis at the beginning of the century can be found in Y. Laurent, \'93Le caract^re historique de Gen&se, 2-3, dans i\'92ex\'a3g\'a3se fran$aise au tournant du XIX suicle,\'94 in Analecta Lovaniensta Biblica et Or tent alia, 1947, pp. 37-69; justice is rendered to the works of F. Lenormant (1880-84); and the eclectic attempt of Father M. J. Lagrange, in his famous article in the. Revue biblique (1897), \'93L\'92innocence et le p\'a3ch6,\'94 is well characterized. When we reread that notable article today, we are struck at the same time by its boldness in detail and its timidity as a whole. Father Lagrange rejects both literalism and the interpretation which he calls allegorical, and regards the story of the fall as \'93a true history told in a popular or symbolic way\'94 (p. 358): \'93It has always been understood in the Church that this very true history was not a history like others, but a history clothed in figures\'97metaphors, symbols\'97or popular language\'94 (p, 361); hence the attempt to separate the \'93substantial elements\'94 and the \'93symbolic forms\'94 (p. 361). Like Origen and Gajetan, he extends the role of symbolism very far. But it is hard to see how the story as a whole could have a bearing on real history when all the circumstances, taken one by one, are interpreted symbolically (pp. 34358). Perhaps Father Lagrange has too narrow an idea of the symbol, which he seems not to distinguish from allegory; thus, faced with the alternative, allegory or history, he chooses history, while distinguishing the form and the content of the story. Nevertheless, it is true that Father Lagrange did see, long before we were acquainted with the whole Babylonian background of the creation-stories, that what is significant is not what is corroborated by historical parallels, but what is without parallel. Thus he broke decisively with the sort of apologetic exegesis which relied on such parallels to prove a so-called oral tradition descending from Adam to our first written sources. Moreover, Father Lagrange perceived that the genius of the sacred writer consisted very often in transforming into symbols something that had been literal belief in the popular imagination. That insight goes very far, but it is not carried out to its ultimate consequences. Still, Father Lagrange does write: \'93Symbolic language does not have the same laws as familiar language and should not be interpreted by the same method\'94 (p. 354).\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
------Topic 6------\
Word Distribution: [('evil', 0.012102235), ('man', 0.008621753), ('myth', 0.0083383275), ('history', 0.005773054), ('life', 0.0052076206), ('symbols', 0.0051068193), ('body', 0.005030806), ('world', 0.0044190055), ('symbol', 0.004258032), ('experience', 0.003884064)]\
Segment 1266: He may slay me: I have no other hope than to justify my conduct before him.\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
------Topic 7------\
Word Distribution: [('man', 0.0090195), ('life', 0.008340981), ('experience', 0.0076395567), ('myth', 0.0068605547), ('history', 0.0056994194), ('soul', 0.005298636), ('death', 0.0051223463), ('body', 0.005009196), ('time', 0.00455486), ('human', 0.0036473488)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 8------\
Word Distribution: [('sin', 0.02321768), ('law', 0.010591441), ('evil', 0.009138443), ('man', 0.008664891), ('defilement', 0.0072889663), ('god', 0.006256637), ('experience', 0.004792696), ('shall', 0.0046073585), ('symbol', 0.0044837496), ('fault', 0.0042668763)]\
Segment 250: For three crimes of the children of Ammon, and for four,\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
------Topic 9------\
Word Distribution: [('god', 0.012176125), ('man', 0.01185179), ('sin', 0.011397483), ('experience', 0.0076171774), ('shall', 0.0054911757), ('guilt', 0.0047041643), ('myth', 0.004382425), ('evil', 0.004307403), ('fault', 0.0041243844), ('king', 0.0040261783)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 10------\
Word Distribution: [('god', 0.019886049), ('man', 0.010174341), ('does', 0.0049188896), ('death', 0.004821898), ('defilement', 0.0046944735), ('yahweh', 0.0040813587), ('tragic', 0.0040132743), ('suffering', 0.003968187), ('wrath', 0.0039011303), ('figure', 0.003337699)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 11------\
Word Distribution: [('evil', 0.017104665), ('man', 0.015646305), ('tragic', 0.012632447), ('myth', 0.009554103), ('god', 0.0072456053), ('creation', 0.0059316596), ('adamic', 0.00537255), ('end', 0.0046203732), ('world', 0.0041335323), ('gods', 0.0038715745)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 12------\
Word Distribution: [('symbol', 0.010577133), ('god', 0.005623712), ('man', 0.0055898004), ('evil', 0.004667936), ('defilement', 0.004554061), ('interpretation', 0.0043696375), ('body', 0.0043100026), ('soul', 0.0040615834), ('philosophy', 0.0037959171), ('shall', 0.0037714373)]\
Segment 1292: I am going to question you and you will give me the answers.)\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
------Topic 13------\
Word Distribution: [('tragic', 0.009016069), ('man', 0.008266549), ('guilt', 0.0066580265), ('god', 0.00503082), ('evil', 0.0041452795), ('time', 0.0040324545), ('symbolism', 0.0039237617), ('sin', 0.003629034), ('symbols', 0.0035542473), ('language', 0.003407096)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 14------\
Word Distribution: [('soul', 0.01674201), ('myth', 0.01562565), ('body', 0.010813909), ('god', 0.008007177), ('evil', 0.0079742195), ('man', 0.0074879364), ('tragic', 0.007228062), ('fault', 0.0044836197), ('symbols', 0.004226931), ('return', 0.004044869)]\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 15------\
Word Distribution: [('man', 0.012910594), ('sin', 0.01148082), ('evil', 0.0078819925), ('pp', 0.0054739243), ('myth', 0.0052882014), ('defilement', 0.004921975), ('second', 0.004748588), ('god', 0.004617954), ('confession', 0.0044399104), ('experience', 0.0041994257)]\
Segment 702: She has set up the [Assembly] and is furious with rage.\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
------Topic 16------\
Word Distribution: [('myth', 0.017924888), ('evil', 0.015933873), ('man', 0.01373824), ('experience', 0.0057992386), ('meaning', 0.0043087043), ('human', 0.0043056956), ('figure', 0.004220073), ('symbol', 0.004054941), ('adamic', 0.0039227116), ('say', 0.0039120545)]\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 17------\
Word Distribution: [('man', 0.011700843), ('law', 0.008830737), ('god', 0.008778056), ('sin', 0.006412271), ('tragic', 0.0049302652), ('symbols', 0.0049153315), ('evil', 0.0048320927), ('symbolism', 0.0046520713), ('death', 0.0042542038), ('shall', 0.004205499)]\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 18------\
Word Distribution: [('myth', 0.010705716), ('evil', 0.006945849), ('meaning', 0.0056874575), ('shall', 0.005611773), ('soul', 0.0047786417), ('god', 0.004637822), ('time', 0.0046032844), ('say', 0.004441338), ('symbol', 0.0043927254), ('history', 0.0043093357)]\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
\
------Topic 19------\
Word Distribution: [('man', 0.010673347), ('myth', 0.009834515), ('god', 0.008883245), ('gods', 0.0052996143), ('freedom', 0.0042847735), ('fall', 0.00428195), ('word', 0.004059574), ('history', 0.0035804238), ('prometheus', 0.0035563896), ('creation', 0.0034549143)]\
Segment 737: When it is I myself who give birth to my people!\
\
Segment 1269: I would be attentive to what he would say to me.\
\
Segment 211: For three crimes of Damascus, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 213: For three crimes of Tyre, and for four . . .\
\
Segment 1239: But perhaps there is more to be said: it is not only some mg\
\
Segment 212: For three crimes of Gaza, and for four . , .\
\
Segment 248: ... I will send a fire into the house of Hazael ...\
\
Segment 347: Here one sees the beginning of an anthropology which is not\
\
Segment 619: 3.	The third schema of the servile will is the schema of \'93in-\
\
Segment 249: ... I will send a fire against the walls of Gaza . . .\
}