{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\csgray\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 \CocoaLigature0 \

\f1\b \ul Experiment 4 - With Top 10 Segments per Topic
\f0\b0 \ulnone \
MAX_DF: 0.95\
MIN_DF: 0.01\
Number of Segs: 1189/1912\
Number of Features: 809\
Score: -248.60464940216596\
0.064760 Topic #0: creation 113.925, king 97.1, god 83.924, drama 78.407, type 74.431, evil 69.364, figure 49.962, primordial 48.055, enemy 42.933, world 39.86,\
0.073171 Topic #1: defilement 162.74, punishment 92.042, fear 73.848, death 67.404, life 63.031, fault 55.978, order 54.832, consciousness 53.063, impure 46.417, evil 35.67,\
0.093356 Topic #2: myth 454.018, soul 217.202, body 190.1, evil 152.085, symbol 110.741, adamic 87.051, philosophy 75.034, fall 59.538, plato 42.82, interpretation 42.155,\
0.060555 Topic #3: adam 91.887, figure 81.889, story 58.548, fall 48.651, history 44.35, image 43.713, paris 39.1, experience 35.703, testament 34.1, event 30.037,\
0.058873 Topic #4: symbol 248.485, symbolism 148.33, experience 83.036, meaning 80.995, pardon 67.454, language 65.377, word 63.308, shall 63.118, symbolic 62.429, confession 52.173,\
0.074012 Topic #5: guilt 93.502, greek 92.796, fault 66.82, conscience 57.343, consciousness 47.111, question 46.214, point 39.622, relation 37.801, culture 37.636, notion 37.434,\
0.045416 Topic #6: myth 199.442, history 77.928, time 57.222, religion 50.894, experience 48.201, nature 44.468, mythical 43.359, torah 38.164, structure 36.822, form 35.597,\
0.063919 Topic #7: evil 274.282, suffering 116.396, good 93.984, human 72.67, life 62.856, paul 61.49, death 54.949, freedom 41.641, flesh 38.643, know 38.428,\
0.044575 Topic #8: prophet 81.068, people 62.897, israel 57.171, ethical 55.014, yahweh 54.417, demand 51.79, pharisee 41.765, justice 34.891, moral 32.662, accusation 31.633,\
0.052986 Topic #9: tragic 210.1, tragedy 74.187, titan 59.1, dionysos 53.1, divine 52.056, prometheus 47.1, vision 42.552, theology 39.272, hero 37.738, wrath 37.276,\
\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 0 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: Still more important for our purpose than the epic theme of the Reign of Yahweh is the theme of the oriental king who wages war in the name of God against the common enemies of God, of his anointed, and of his chosen people. It is here, as we have seen, that the evil of history is linked with cosmic evil, the Enemy representing the outcropping, in history, of the primordial Peril. The cosmic drama becomes a Messianic drama: \'93Why do the heathen rage, ,and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth rise up, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord, and against his anointed. . . .\'94 But Yahweh, in his wrath, speaks to them: \'93I myself have set my king upon Zion, my holy mountain. . . And to his king he says: \'93Thou shalt break them with a sceptre of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter\'92s vessel\'94 (Ps. 2). To David, \'93his servant,\'94 Yahweh says again in Psalm 89: \'93The enemy shall not deceive him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him. And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. ...\'94 Have we not here a recollection of the \'93cultual-ritual\'94 combat of the god-king? Is not the historical enemy the primordial enemy of God and the king? Is not the Ling himself chosen "from the beginning,\'94 at the time when chaos was overcome?\
---------\
Seg: This first trait leads to a second: if the divine came into being, then chaos is anterior to order and the principle of evil is primordial, coextensive with the generation of the divine. Order came to pass in the divine itself, and it came to pass by the victory of the latest over the earliest forces of divinity. The anterior disorder is represented in our poem by various figures and episodes, and first of all by Tiamat, the primordial mother\'97\'93mother of them all\'94 (I, 4)\'97who with Apsu, the primordial father, represents the initial commingling of the vastness of the marine waters with the fresh waters. But this liquid chaos has a surcharge of meaning, in which the myth of the origin of evil takes shape. For Tiamat is more than the visible immensity of the waters; she has the power to produce. Moreover, she is capable of plotting against the other gods. According to the story, the younger gods disturbed the primeval peace of the old couple:\
---------\
Seg: Are we right in speaking of a recessive form in connection with certain themes of the Hebrew Bible that are still enlisted, it seems, under the phenomenological type of the creation-drama? Certain exegetes, chiefly Scandinavian, have gone much further and have shown the strict dependence of the Messianic theme and even of the theme of the primordial man on the \'93ideology of the king,\'94 the meaning of which in the drama of creation we have seen. Let us begin by following them. Perhaps the typological method will bring to light a discontinuity in meaning where the historical and exegetic method is more sensitive to the weight of influences and to the continuity of images and literary expression, Historical continuity and phenomenological or typological discontinuity are not mutually exclusive, if they are brought into play from different points of view and at different levels.\
---------\
Seg: But it is especially by the role of the king in the festival that the transition from cosmic drama to history is effected. The king is both the grand penitent, in whom the service of the gods is epitomized, and the personification of the bound and delivered god. On the fifth day of the festival, the king is stripped of his emblems and struck by the priest; he makes a declaration of innocence; the priest speaks words of appeasement to him, reclothes him in his insignia, strikes him again to draw from him tears that probably signify the good will of the god; the king, thus reinstalled, can play the role of officiant in the great ceremony of renewal. This scene of humiliation is a kind of deposition which associates the precariousness of his kingship with the captivity of the dying god and bases the renewal of his sovereignty on the victory of the delivered god,\
---------\
Seg: Thus placed in the sequence of the drama of creation, the theme of the enemy stands out strongly: \'93I will make thine enemies thy footstool . . , rule thou in the midst of thine enemies . . . [the Messiah] will break kings in the day of his wrath,\'94 says Psalm 110. At the same time it is easy to see how the ritual combat, which re-enacts the drama of creation, can be extended in three different directions. In the first place, the paradigm of the King may move toward that of the primeval man, who likewise \'93reigns\'94 over the earth, because he also is the "image\'94 of God. Again, it is Psalm 8\
---------\
Seg: The \'93ritual- cultual\'94 schema of the drama of creation, repeated in the combats of the king against his enemies, is certainly the key to a certain number of the Psalms, which insinuate at the same time that the evil in history, represented by the enemies of Yahweh and the King, also has its roots in a primordial enmity overcome by Yahweh when he founded the world and established the firmament, above which his throne is securely set,\
---------\
Seg: In the Babylonian poem, the first murder, that of Apsu massacred in his sleep, serves as prologue to the decisive combat in which Tiamat is vanquished by Marduk, That combat, for which the way is solemnly prepared by the enthronement of Marduk in the assembly of the gods, is really the center of the poem; it makes the creation of the world follow upon the salvation of the gods, menaced by the original disorder from which they came forth:\
---------\
Seg: But we have not yet come to the end of this investigation of primordial evil, for it is still by disorder that disorder is overcome; it is by violence that the youngest of the gods establishes order. Thus the principle of evil is twice designated: as the chaos anterior to order, and as the struggle by which chaos is overcome. That is what makes the theogony \'93epic\'94: it is by War and Murder that the original Enemy is finally vanquished.\
---------\
Seg: It will be seen what human violence is thus justified by the primordial violence. Creation is a victory over an Enemy older than the creator; that Enemy, immanent in the divine, will be represented in history by all the enemies whom the king in his turn, as servant of the god, will have as his mission to destroy. Thus Violence is\
---------\
Seg: 25Engnell shows that the fusion of the supreme god with the god of fertility can easily take place in either direction, without the necessity of supposing a transposition from the agrarian theme to the theme of sovereignty through the king as intermediary; on the contrary, it is the figure of the king that is the beneficiary of this mutual encroachment upon each other of the two "divine\'94 epithets (op. cit,, pp. 18-23). Similarly Frankfort: "The recital of the gods\'92 victory over chaos at the beginning of time cast a spell of accomplishment over the hazardous and all-important renewal of natural life in the present\'94 (op. cit.s p. 314),\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 1 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: This moment is at first a subordinate and enveloped one. It can already be dimly made out in the theme of defilement. We have seen that the dread which is characteristic of defilement was an anticipation and forestalling of punishment. The chastisement thus anticipated extends its shadow over the consciousness of the present, which feels the weight of this threat weighing upon it, What is essential in guilt is already contained in this consciousness of being \'93burdened,\'94 burdened by a \'93weight.\'94 Guiltiness is never anything else than the anticipated chastisement itself, internalized and already weighing upon consciousness; and as dread is from the beginning the way of internalization of defilement itself, in spite of the radical externality of the evil, guilt is a moment contemporaneous with defilement itself. But at this stage this moment remains a subordinate one: it is because man is ritually unclean that he is \'93burdened\'94 with fault; he need not be the author of the evil to feel himself burdened by its weight and the weight of its consequences. To be guilty is only to be ready to undergo the chastise-\
---------\
Seg: The fault itself is part of a complex of misfortunes, to which death and birth contribute a note of contingency and ineluctability . that contaminates human action, so to speak, with their fatality. Man is essentially mortal, and his mortality is his lot; the pale and unsubstantial reality of the world of the dead heightens more than it weakens the character of mortality as an insurmountable obstacle; the gods, as powers brought to a focus in distinct and precise shapes, can do nothing about it. This note of impotence is reflected back from death upon birth, which is the first day of reckoning, the first fateful event; birth is represented on the model of death, and all of one\'92s destiny appears fated, beginning from its end. Thus the fatality of death and of birth haunts all our acts, which are thereby rendered impotent and irresponsible. The psychological \'93lability\'94 of the Homeric hero has often been emphasized\
---------\
Seg: This second anticipation, implicit in archaic dread, seems to me to predominate over the first; for why demand a penalty proportionate to the fault if it served no end, if it had no purpose? The degree of the penalty, without the purpose of the penalty, is meaningless. In other words, what is aimed at in vengeance is expiation \'97that is to say, the punishment that takes away defilement; but what is aimed at in this negative act of taking away is the act of reaffirming order. Now, order cannot be reaffirmed outside of the guilty person without being reaffirmed within him too. Hence, what is aimed at, through vengeance and expiation, is amendment .\'97that is to say,- the restoration of the personal worth of the guilty person through a just punishment.	.\
---------\
Seg: Taken in its origin\'97that is to say, in its matrix of terror\'97this initial intuition is the intuition of primordial fatality. The invincible bond between Vengeance and defilement is anterior to any institution, any intention, any decree; it is so primitive that it is anterior even to the representation of an avenging god. The automatism in the sanction that the primitive consciousness dreads and adores expresses this a priori synthesis of avenging wrath, as if the fault wounded the potency of the interdict and as if that injury ineluctably triggered the response. Man confessed this ineluctability long before he recognized the regularity of the natural order. When he first wished to express the order in the world, he began by expressing it in the language of retribution. The famous fragment of\
---------\
Seg: Perhaps we can best sum up the whole iavOo? and the whole filo? of the Orphico-Pythagoreans in the following exclamations, taken from the Purifications of Empedocles: \'93What honors and what heights of bliss have I left to wander here among mortals!\'94 And again: \'93I have wept and I have wailed upon seeing the unfamiliar place where Murder dwells, and Wrath, and tribes of other woes\'97withering diseases, corruption, flood.\'94 And: \'93Of these am I now one, exiled from the divine abode, a wanderer who has placed his trust in raving Discord.\'94 And, finally, the famous words: \'93I assure you that I am an immortal god, and no longer a mortal,\'94\
---------\
Seg: Such are the two archaic traits\'97objective and subjective\'97of defilement: a \'93something\'94 that infects, a dread that anticipates the unleashing of the avenging wrath of the interdiction. These are the two traits that we no longer comprehend except as moments in the representation of evil that we have gone beyond.\
---------\
Seg: that nevertheless works in the manner of a force in the field of our undividedly psychic and corporeal existence. We no longer understand what the substance-force of evil, the efficacy of a something that makes purity itself an exemption from defilement and purification an annulment of defilement, could be.\
---------\
Seg: dread of the impure and rites of purification are in the background of all our feelings arid all our behavior relating to fault, What is there that the philosopher can understand about these feelings and these modes of behavior?\
---------\
Seg: \'97the feebleness of the psychological synthesis of his acts, which makes them seem like happenings without a personal subject and consequently the prey of superior powers. It is by a passive verb\'97 aauOai\'97that the blinding is expressed; the blinding itself\'97yAtj/ \'97is its other side, positive and active, its projection into a world of transcendent powers.\
---------\
Seg: As for the word that dominates the whole vocabulary of defilement\'97KaOapos,\'97it expresses very well the ambiguity of purity, which oscillates between the physical and the ethical. Its central intention is to express exemption from the impure: non-inter-\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 2 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: Only the \'93Adamic\'94 myth is strictly anthropological. This means' that it has three characteristics. In the first place, the etiological myth relates the origin of evil to an ancestor of the human race as it is now whose condition is homogeneous with ours. All the speculations on the supernatural perfection of Adam before the fall are adventitious contrivances which profoundly alter the original nai've, brute meaning; they tend to make Adam superior and hence a stranger to our condition, and at the same time they reduce the Adamic myth to a genesis of man from a primordial superhumanity. There is no doubt that the very word \'93fall,\'94 which is foreign to the Biblical vocabulary, is contemporaneous with the elevation of the \'93Adamic\'94 condition above the present human condition; only what has first been elevated falls. The symbol of the fall, then, is not the authentic symbol of the "Adamic\'94 myth; moreover, it is found in Plato, in gnosis, in Plotinus. That is why we have not called this chapter \'93The Myth of the Fall,\'94 but \'93The Adamic Myth.\'94 When we have traced the roots of the symbolism of the Adamic myth back to the more fundamental symbolism of sin, we shall see that the Adamic myth is a myth of \'93deviation,\'94 or \'93going astray,\'94 rather than a myth of the \'93fall.\'94\
---------\
Seg: This chapter is devoted to the dynamics of the myths. Of the three ways of accounting for the pre-eminence of the Adamic myth, this is the one that most naturally follows our mythical investigation of fault. The second way will be the object of the last volume of this work; it corresponds to the line of force of our whole undertaking and commands a philosophy of fault, distinct from a theology; the principle of it will be set forth in the concluding chapter of the present work. The dynamics of the myths which we are going to propose plays a propaedeutic role with relation to that philosophical interpretation of the symbols of evil; for it is not the Adamic myth alone, but the whole cycle of myths and its gravita- , tion around the dominant myth, that provide the subject matter for reflection on the symbols of evil. As to. the first way of justifying the Adamic myth, it - belongs to theology and not to philosophy. The philosopher verifies what is revealed by that which reveals; the\
---------\
Seg: theologian testifies to the agreement of the Adamic myth with Christology. Like St. Paul, he places the \'93in Adam\'94 with relation to the \'93in Christ,\'94 and determines the relevance of the symbol of the fall to the totality of the Kerygma; that relevance constitutes its authority in an ecclesiastical theology. The philosopher who does not pretend to annex Christology to his enterprise can have recourse only to the verification of the revealing character of the myth. The belief accorded to the pre-eminence of the Adamic myth is common to the way of the philosopher and the way of the theologian, but their modes of justifying the belief are different. We shall be concerned with the bifurcation between philosophy and theology only in the analyses of the final chapter, The dynamics of the myths, which we are about to sketch, still belongs to an undifferentiated mode of thinking that is common to the theologian\
---------\
Seg: What we are now seeking is not yet the philosophy of fault; it can only be a propaedeutic. Myth is already logos, but it has still to be taken up into philosophic discourse. This propaedeutic remains at the level of a purely descriptive phenomenology that permits the believing soul to speak. The philosopher adopts provisionally foe motivations and intentions of the believing soul. He does not \'93feel\'94 them in their first naivety he \'93re-feels\'94 them in a neutralized mode, in the mode of \'93as if.\'94 It is in this sense that phenomenology is a re-enactment in sympathetic imagination. But this phenomenology falls short of reflection in the full sense, such as we pursued in the first part up to foe concept of fallibility. The problem remains: how to integrate this re-enactment in sympathetic imagination into reflection? How give reflection a new start by means of a symbolics of liberty in bondage?\
---------\
Seg: Is this attempt to view all the myths in the perspective of a dominant myth entirely satisfactory? We do not pretend that it is. If it were, that would mean that the hermeneutics of myths can take the place of systematic philosophy, which is not the case. The universe of the myths remains a broken universe; not being able to unify the mythical universe on the basis of one of these myths alone, imaginative and sympathetic understanding, without personal appropriation, often remains as the thinker\'92s only resource. Besides, alternatives which cannot be settled by a simple passage from the statics to the dynamics of the myths subsist at the flection of each of the pairs that we have constructed in order to get the dynamics going.\
---------\
Seg: Is this attempt to view all the myths in the perspective of a dominant myth entirely satisfactory? We do not pretend that it is. If it were, that would mean that the hermeneutics of myths can take the place of systematic philosophy, which is not the case. The universe of the myths remains a broken universe; not being able to unify the mythical universe on the basis of one of these myths alone, imaginative and sympathetic understanding, without personal appropriation, often remains as the thinker\'92s only resource. Besides, alternatives which cannot be settled by a simple passage from the statics to the dynamics of the myths subsist at the flection of each of the pairs that we have constructed in order to get the dynamics going.\
---------\
Seg: But is this re-enactment possible? Does not the mediative role that we have granted to speculation and myth condemn in advance the attempt to restore the pre-mythical and pte-speculative foundation? The venture would be hopeless if, lower than gnosis and myth, there were no longer any language. But this is not the case; there is the language of confession, which in the languages of myth and speculation is raised to the second and third degrees.\
---------\
Seg: There still remains, however, the task of understanding the motivations that have governed the process of contamination. Now, it is only by- discovering in each of these myths an affinity for the other that we shall be able to account for the possibility of their confusion; and in thus making the contamination intelligible through a play of underground affinities, we shall have stretched to the limit our endeavor to comprehend all the myths, including the most contrary ones, in the light of the dominant myth,\
---------\
Seg: infantile and instinctual part of the psychism and the interpretation that finds in them the anticipation of our possibilities of evolution and maturation. Later we shall have to explore an interpretation according to which \'93regression\'94 is a roundabout way of \'93progression\'94 and of the exploration of our potentialities. <1> For that we shall have to penetrate beyond the Freudian metapsychology of levels (ego,, id, super-ego) and the Jungian metapsychology (energism and archetypes) and let ourselves be instructed directly by Freudian therapeutics and Jungian therapeutics, which, no doubt, are addressed to different types of patients. Re-immersion in our archaism is no doubt the roundabout way by which we immerse ourselves in the archaism of humanity, and this double \'93regression\'94 is possibly, in its turn, the way to a discovery, a prospection, and a prophecy concerning ourselves.\
---------\
Seg: s This second volume does not push reflection beyond myths; the elaboration of speculative symbols will be the object of the third volume. It appears, in fact, that the immediate debate of gnosis is with philosophy, and so it is in the framework of a philosophy of fault that gnosis must be examined.\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 3 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: the end of this chapter, to the initial figure: to Man, to Anthropos. The Son of Man is Man; but he is no longer the First Man, but a Man who is coming; he is the Man of the end, whether he be an an individual or the personification of a collective entity, of the remnant of Israel, or of the whole of humanity, As such, he is the replica of the first Man, created in the image of God (O. Cullmann supposes that the theme of the imago Dei may have made the adoption of this figure that comes from elsewhere easier for Judaism) ; he is the replica of the first Man, but he is new in relation to him and cannot be the return, pure and simple, of a first Man, supposed perfect and not a sinner, as in certain gnostic speculations on Adam. <92>\
---------\
Seg: <59>	S. Langdon, Sumerian Epic of Paradise, the Flood, and the Fall of Man (University Museum, University of Pennsylvania, Publications of the Babylonian Section, X, Pt. I, 1915; French translation by Gh. Virolleaud, Paris, 1919), See the review by P. Dhorme, RSvue Biblique (1921), pp. 309-12; Kramer, Sumerian Mythology, pp. 54-59; Contenau, Le Diluge babylonien, new ed. (1951), pp. 50-54. There is a new translation by S, N. Kramer, giving a quite different interpretation of this difficult Sumerian text, in Pritchard, op. cit., pp. 37-41, and Mendelsohn, op. cit\'84 pp. 3-11.\
---------\
Seg: This experience of alienation is equally one of the components of the later dogma of original sin. We have already evoked it once in connection with the universality of sin, If that universality, which is originally the universality of a tie that is more than biological and more than historical\'97the \'93we\'94 of a community of sinners, \'97could lend itself to pseudo-biological rationalizations and project itself in the representation of a hereditary transmission, it is through the medium of the experience of alienation.\
---------\
Seg: The rest follows from this double privilege of Athens and Jerusalem: everything that, step by step, has contributed to our spiritual genesis belongs to our investigation, but along the lines of motivation that are expressed by \'93near\'94 and \'93far.\'94\
---------\
Seg: And now, why is the woman chosen for the confrontation of interdict and desire? In the Biblical account she represents the point of weakness and giving way in the presence of the seducer; the serpent tempts the man through the woman.\
---------\
Seg: This reference of the instant of the fall to an innocent past, to a paradise which is spoken of only as lost, is secured by the insertion of the story of the fall into a story of creation. In virtue of\
---------\
Seg: 7 For the general relation between the idea of sin and the idea of Covenant, see Eichrodt\'92s magistral Theologte des alien Testaments (Leipzig, 1933-39, 3 vols.). I refer in particular to Vol. Ill, $ 23, \'93Siinde und Vergebung,\'94 See also the excellent synthesis in Ed. Jacob, Les themes essentiels d\'92une tkSologie de VAncien Testament. (Neuch&tel, 1955), pp. 75-82, 91-94, 170-77, and 226-40.\
---------\
Seg: Are we in the presence of a pagan apologetics intended to turn; the tables on Christianity by countering its stories concerning the!: origin and the fall of mankind with comparable stories?	yV\
---------\
Seg: It is possible to approach the core of this experience by taking as our point of departure certain traits of the Biblical religion with\
---------\
Seg: <85> try to incorporate in the meaning of the story itself the tension that comes from the concurrence of the two sources according to P. Humbert; Zimmerli is a very good methodological guide on this point (op. cit,, p. 145). For the theological significance of the story of the fall, I have used Eichrodt, Tkeologie des alien Testaments, III, $ 23, \'93Siinde und Verge-bung\'94; Edmond Jacob, Les Thames essentiels d\'92une thSologie de Vancien Testament (Neuch&tel & Paris, 1955), pp. 226-39; G. von Rad, Tkeologie des alien Testaments, X (Munich, 1957), pp. 157 ff., 261 ff.\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 4 : \

\f0\b0 ---------\
Seg: linguistic expressions. In symbolic logic these expressions are themselves replaced by letters, or written signs, which need no longer be spoken and by means of which it is possible to calculate without asking oneself how they are incorporated in a deontology of reasoning.  These, then, are no longer abbreviations of familiar verbal . expressions, but characters\'94 in the Leibnizian sense of the word-\'97 that is to say, elements of a calculus. It is clear that the kind of symbol with which we are concerned here is the contrary of a character. Not only does it belong to a kind of thinking that is bound to its contents, and therefore not formalized, but the intimate bond between its first and second intentions and the impossibility of presenting the symbolic meaning to oneself otherwise than by the actual operation of analogy make of the symbolic language a language essentially bound\} bound to its content and, through its primary content, to its secondary content. In this sense, it is the absolute inverse of an absolute formalism. One might be astonished that the symbol has two such rigorously inverse uses. Perhaps the reason should be sought in the structure of signification, which is at once a function of absence and a function of presence: a function of absence because to signify is to signify \'93vacuously,\'94 it is to say things without the things, in substituted signs; a function of presence because to signify is to signify \'93something\'94 and finally the world. Signification, by its very structure, makes possible at the same time both total formalization that is to say, the reduction of signs to\
---------\
Seg: 2.	But to say that the symbol is a sign is to draw too large a circle, which must now be made smaller. Every sign aims at something beyond itself and stands for that something; but not every sign is a symbol. We shall say that the symbol conceals in its aim a double intentionality. Take the \'93defiled,\'94 the \'93impure\'94 This significant expression presents a first or literal intentionality that, like every significant expression, supposes the triumph of the conventional sign over the natural sign. Thus, the literal meaning of \'93defilement\'94 is \'93stain,\'94 but this literal meaning is already a conventional sign; the words \'93stain,\'94 \'93unclean,\'94 etc., do not resemble the thing signified. But upon this first intentionality there is erected a second intentionality which, through the physically \'93unclean,\'94 points to a certain situation of man in the sacred which is precisely that of being defiled, impure. The literal and manifest sense, then, points beyond itself to something that is like a stain or spot. Thus, contrary to perfectly transparent technical signs, which say only what they want to say in positing that which they signify, symbolic signs are opaque, because the first, literal, obvious meaning itself points analogically to a second meaning which is not given otherwise than in it (we shall return to this point in order to distinguish symbol from allegory). This opacity constitutes the depth of the symbol, which, it will be said, is inexhaustible,\
---------\
Seg: As to sacrifice itself, on the other hand, its objective efficacy is not without relation to "pardon\'94 understood, as we have tried to understand it, without any reference to sacrifice, The very word "expiation\'94 (kipper <29>) is connected by its moral harmonics with the other symbols of buying back and ransom; the gesture of "covering,\'94 or more probably of \'93wiping out\'94 by rubbing, has immediately a symbolic resonance and signifies pardon itself (inversely, the word pardon\'97salach\'97recalls the ritual gesture of sprinkling <30>), One might believe at first that pardon and expiation are contrasted as the action of God who delivers and the action of the man (the priest) who "makes expiation.\'94 But the expression \'93make expiation\'94 does not prejudge any of the representations connected with this verb; it is equivalent to: perform the action defined as expiatory by the ritual. It is not said what happens every time the ritual proclaims: "thus shall the sacrificer make expiation for them and it shall be forgiven them\'94 (Lev. 4:20, 26, 31, 35, and 5:10 and 13); it cannot be concluded therefrom that the priest and his performance have a magical hold over the divine. On the contrary, the only breakthrough that Leviticus proposes in the direction of a theology of sacrifice\'97all the more precious because of its character as an exception\'97gives a hint of a possible inclusion of the gestural symbolism of the expiatory rite in the altogether spiritual symbolism of pardon. The text is this:\
---------\
Seg: Ceremonial expiation, then, is no longer foreign to the central theme of \'93return\'94 and \'93pardon.\'94 This theme is, in a way, objectified in a mime. There are not two worlds: a world of ceremony and a world of contrition; the latter is represented in the former as in a gestural enigma. The ritual of the \'93day of expiation\'94 (Lev. 16) shows this synthesis of the two symbolisms very well: the confession of sins is an indispensable condition, but the expiation occupies the central place with its multiple sprinklings; and finally, the rite of the goat driven into the desert to carry away the sins of Israel makes sensible to all eyes the complete remission of sins. Thus the rite of expulsion expresses more completely what has already been signified in the rite of renewal, which externalizes the reconciliation through pardon. <32> Finally, it is because the foreign vegetation of ceremonial expiation grew like an excrescence on the tree of \'93repentance\'94 and \'93pardon\'94 that the symbolism of expiation could, in return, enrich that of \'93pardon\'94; and so one sees God invoked in\
---------\
Seg: but this time upon God\'92s gift of the means of expiation: \'93I have given it to you upon the altar, in order that. . . This emphasis is perhaps more important than the theology of satisfactio vicaria indicated by the Septuagint, for it suggests that the priest who \'93makes expiation\'94 is the performer of a mystery, the sense of which is \'93given\'94 by God, through the symbolism of blood and of life, however the rite may operate, This gift of the means of expiation is closely related to pardon itself. <31>\
---------\
Seg: 3.	But let us correctly understand the analogical bond between the literal meaning and the symbolic meaning. While analogy is inconclusive reasoning that proceeds by fourth proportional\'97A is to B as G is to D\'97in the symbol, I cannot objectify the analogical relation that connects the second meaning with the first. It is by living in the first meaning that I am led by it beyond itself; the symbolic meaning is constituted in and by the literal meaning which effects the analogy in giving the analogue. Maurice Blondel said: \'93Analogies are based less on notional resemblances (similitudines) than on an interior stimulation, on an assimilative solicitation (intentio ad assimilationem) .\'94 In fact, unlike a comparison that\
---------\
Seg: But what the symbol gives rise to is thinking, After the gift, positing. The aphorism suggests at the same time that everything has already been said enigmatically and yet that it is always necessary to begin everything and to begin it again in the dimension of thinking. It is this articulation of thought given to itself in the realm of symbols and of thought positing and thinking that constitutes the critical point of our whole enterprise.	.\
---------\
Seg: Shall we say that sin presupposes a \'93theistic\'94 perspective? This proposal is juster, but on two conditions: that we take the theistic thesis in a sense that includes both monotheistic and polytheistic representations, and that we take theism prior to the elaboration of any theology, as the fundamental situation of a man who finds himself implicated in the initiative taken by someone who, on his side, is essentially turned toward man; a god in the image of man, if you wish, but above all a god concerned about man; a god who is anthropotropic\'97before being anthropomorphic.\
---------\
Seg: In fact it is necessary to add to the cycle of symbols of \'93return\'94 a new cycle of symbols that gravitate around \'93buying back.\'94 The symbolism of \'93return\'94 refers us to the idea of sin as a breaking of the bond of the Covenant; that of \'93buying back\'94 refers us to the idea of a power which holds man captive, and for the suppression of which a ransom must be given in exchange.\
---------\
Seg: Under this first aspect, the symbolism of sin breaks with that of defilement. But sin is not only the rupture of a relation; it is also the experience of a power that lays hold of man. In this respect, the symbolism of sin rediscovers the major intention of the symbolism of defilement; sin, too, is a \'93something,\'94 a \'93reality.\'94 Thus, we have to give an account at the same time of the preferment of a new\
Topic: 5 : \
---------\
Seg: \'93Relations in depth\'94 first. There are themes of the religious consciousness that appear to us today, as it were, in the \'93thickness\'94 and the transparency of our present motivations. The conception of fault as defilement is the best example of this; it shows through all our Greek and Hebrew documents. It is impossible to overestimate the importance of this stratified structure for the consciousness of fault. Psychoanalysis, it will be seen, tries to make a logical archaism coincide with this cultural \'93distance.\'94 It is to elucidate this sedimentation of our cultural memory that we can appeal to documents bearing on civilizations which do not belong to that memory\'97civilizations of Africa, Australia, Asia, etc.\'97and which are quite often contemporary civilizations. The objective likeness that ethnology discovers between them and our own past authorizes us to use knowledge about those civilizations to diagnose our own past, suppressed or buried in oblivion. It is solely in virtue of their diagnostic value in relation to our memory that we shall invoke the testimony of ethnology concerning modes of behavior and consciousness of fault.	.\
---------\
Seg: Not that any culture is excluded in principle; but in this area oriented by the originally Greek question, there are relations of \'93proximity\'94 and \'93distance\'94 that belong inescapably to the structure of our cultural memory, Hence the privilege of \'93proximity\'94 of the Greek and Jewish cultures; these two cultures, which would contain nothing exceptional for an eye not situated anywhere in particular, constitute the first stratum of our philosophical memory. More precisely, the encounter of the Jewish source with the Greek origin is the fundamental intersection that founds our culture. The Jewish source is the first \'93other\'94 of philosophy, its \'93nearest\'94 other; the abstractly contingent fact of that encounter is the very fate of our occidental existence. Since our existence begins with it> this encounter has become necessary, in the sense that it is the presupposition of our undeniable reality. This is why the history of the consciousness of fault in Greece and in Israel will constantly be our central point of reference; it is our \'93nearest\'94 origin, in this spiritual economy of distance.\
---------\
Seg: In the religious literature that we are examining here, the complete substitution of guilt for sin never, appears; the confession of the psalmist, evoked above, still expresses the equilibrium of two tribunals and two measures: the absolute measure, represented by the sight of God, who sees the sins there are, and the subjective measure, represented by the tribunal of the conscience, which appraises any guilt that becomes apparent. But a process was begun, at the end of which the \'93realism\'94-of sin, illustrated by the confession of forgotten or unrecognized sins, would be entirely replaced by the \'93phenomenalism\'94 of guilt, with its play of illusions and masks. This end is attained only at the price of the liquidation of the religious sense of sin. Then man is guilty as he feels himself guilty; guilt in the pure state has become a modality of man the measure. It is this possibility of a complete cleavage between guilt and sin that is presented in the three modalities that we shall study: in the individualization of offenses in the penal sense, in the delicate conscience of the scrupulous man, and in the hell of condemnation above all.\
---------\
Seg: But one cannot explicate these relations in \'93depth\'94 in the bosom of our memory without bringing the \'93lateral\'94 relations to light also. For example, it is impossible today to understand the Hebrew source without placing its beliefs and its institutions in the framework of the culture of the ancient Middle East, for it repeats some of the fundamental themes of that culture (by direct borrowing, by reference to common sources, or in virtue of the parallelism of material and cultural conditions), and above all it modifies some others profoundly. The understanding of those likenesses and unlikenesses pertains henceforth to the proper understanding of the Hebrew source of our memory, so that the culture of the ancient Middle East itself belongs marginally to our memory.\
---------\
Seg: shall not address ourselves to the modern forms of penal law and the problems raised by the encounter of law and criminology; we shall come to those questions later. We shall not have recourse, either, to Roman penal law; the order that it introduces into its concepts is already late in comparison to the themes of impurity, impiety, and injustice, which we want to catch in their nascent state. Much more revelatory of the \'93beginnings\'94 of conscience is the penal experience of the Greeks; precisely because it never attained the order and rigor of that of the Romans, it offers an opportunity to observe penal conceptualization in its inchoate state. Moreover, it is contemporaneous with the philosophical reflection\'97\
---------\
Seg: Our philosophy is Greek by birth. Its intention and its pretension of universality are \'93situated.\'94 The philosopher does not speak from nowhere, but from the depths of his Greek memory, from which rises the question: rl to ov? what is being? This question, which sounds the Greek note at the outset, embraces all later questions, including those of existence and reason, and consequently those of finitude and fault. The fact that the Greek question is situated at the beginning orients the human space of religions which is open to philosophical investigation.\
---------\
Seg: In their turn, these relations in \'93depth\'94 and in \'93breadth\'94 are reshaped by retroactive relations. Our cultural memory is unceasingly renewed retroactively by new discoveries, returns to the sources, reforms and renaissances that are much more than revivals of the past and constitute behind us what one might call a \'93neopast.\'94 Thus, our Hellenism is not exactly the Hellenism of the Alexandrians, or of the Church Fathers, or of Scholasticism, or of the Renaissance, or of the Aufkldrung; think, for example, of the rediscovery of tragedy by the moderns. Thus, by retroaction from the successive \'93nows,\'94 our past never stops changing its meaning; the present appropriation of the past modifies that which motivates us from the depths of the past,\
---------\
Seg: The last word, then, of a reflection on guilt, must be this: the promotion of guilt marks the entry of man into the circle of condemnation; the meaning of that condemnation appears only after the event to the "justified\'94 conscience; it is granted to that conscience to understand its past condemnation as a sort of pedagogy,' but, to the conscience still kept under the guard of the law, its real meaning is unknown.\
---------\
Seg: Sin, thus described in the past tense and related to the experience that goes beyond it, now gets its final meaning of ambiguous threshold. In itself and for itself, it is the impasse and the hell of guilt; it is a curse. But seen from the point of view of "justification,\'94 the curse of the law constitutes the supreme pedagogy. But this meaning can be recognized only after the event.\
---------\
Seg: It was by this roundabout way that the penal thought of the Greeks worked out concepts comparable to the Jewish concepts of guilt. The sacred character of the city was what kept Greek penal thought within the field where it could be compared to the notions that Jewish piety worked out after the Exile.\

\f1\b \
\
Topic: 6 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: Levi-Strauss has insisted strongly on the initial discrepancy between the limitation of experience and the totality signified by the myth: \'93The Universe,\'94 he writes, \'93signified long before man began to know what it signified ... ; it signified from the beginning the totality of what humanity might expect to know about it\'94; \'93man has at his disposal from the beginning an integrality in the significans, about which he is greatly perplexed as to how to allocate it to a significatum, given as such without, however, being known.\'94 This totality, thus signified but so little experienced, becomes available only when it is condensed in sacred beings and objects which become the privileged signs of the significant whole. Hence the primordial diversification of symbols. In fact, there does not exist anywhere in the world a civilization in which this surplus of signification is aimed at. apart from any mythical form or definite ritual. The Sacred takes contingent forms precisely because it is \'93floating\'94; and so it cannot be divined except through the this forgetfulness of the distance between experienced conciliation and aimed-at reconciliation. If it is true that "the primitive man is still the man of conciliation and reconciliation, the man of plenitude,\'94 and that he preserves the mark of \'93that concordance of reality and value that primitive mankind found without difficulty in the myth,\'94 one can no longer understand why the mythical consciousness gives itself up to the tale, to the image, and, in general, to significant speech.\
---------\
Seg: because mythical time can no longer be co-ordinated with the time of events that are "historical\'94 in the sense required by historical method and historical criticism, because mythical space can no longer be co-ordinated with the places of our geography, we are tempted to give ourselves up to a radical demythization of all our thinking. But another possibility offers itself to us: precisely because we are living and thinking after the separation of myth and history, the demythization of our history can become the other side of an understanding of myth as myth, and the conquest, for the first time in the histoiy of culture, of the mythical dimension. That is why we never speak here of demythization, but strictly of demythologization, it being well understood that what is lost is the pseudo-knowledge, the false logos of the myth, such as we find expressed, for example, in the etiological function of myths. But when we lose the myth as immediate logos, we rediscover it as myth. Only at the price and by the roundabout way of philosophical exegesis and understanding, can the myth create a new peripeteia of the logos.\
---------\
Seg: It is this mythical structure itself that leads to the diversity of myths. What, in fact, is the ultimate significance of this mythical structure? It indicates, we are told, the intimate accord of the man of cult and myth with the whole of being; it signifies an indivisible plenitude, in which the supernatural, the natural, and the psychological are not yet torn apart. But how does the myth signify this plenitude? The essential fact is that this intuition of a cosmic whole, from which man is not separated, and this undivided plenitude, anterior to the division into supernatural, natural, and human, are not given, but simply aimed at. It is only in intention that the myth restores some wholeness; it is because he himself has lost that wholeness that man re-enacts and imitates it in myth and rite. The primitive man is already a man of division. Hence the myth can only be an intentional restoration or reinstatement and in this sense already symbolical.\
---------\
Seg: But why does the myth, when it is broken up, take the form of narration? What we have to understand now is why the original model, in which the myth and the rite lead us to participate, itself affects the character of a drama. It is, in fact, because that which is ultimately signified by every myth is itself in the form of a drama that the narrations in which the mythical consciousness is fragmented are themselves woven of happenings and personages; because its paradigm is dramatic, the myth itself is a tissue of events and is found nowhere except in the plastic form of narration. But why does the narration-myth refer symbolically to a drama?\
---------\
Seg: 2.	The universality of man, manifested through the myths, gets its concrete character from the movement which is introduced into human experience by narration; in recounting the Beginning and the End of fault, the myth confers upon this experience an orientation, a character, a tension. Experience is no longer reduced to a present experience; this present was only an instantaneous cross-section in an evolution stretching from an origin to a fulfillment, from a \'93Genesis\'94 to,an \'93Apocalypse.\'94 Thanks to the myth, experience is traversed by the essential history of the perdition and the salvation of man.\
---------\
Seg: These volumes will seek to show that the unity of which we speak consists in a certitude emanating from the nature of man who seeks God and the nature of God who seeks man. Such certitude bathes in an intuitive act of cognition, participating in the divine essence and is related to the natural spirituality of intelligence. This is not by any means to say that there is an equivalence of all faiths in the traditional religions of human history. It is, however, to emphasize the distinction between the spiritual and the temporal which all religions acknowledge. For duration of thought is composed of instants superior to time, and is an intuition of the permanence of existence arid its metahistorical reality.\
---------\
Seg: recognize that human morality and human ideals thrive only when set in a context of a transcendent attitude toward religion and that by pointing to the ground of identity and the common nature of being in the religious experience of man, the essential nature of religion may be defined. Thus, they are committed to re-evaluate the meaning of everlastingness, an experience which has been lost and which is the content of that visio Dei constituting the structure of all religions. It is the many absorbed everlastingly into the ultimate unity, a unity subsuming what Whitehead calls the fluency of God and the everlastingness of passing experience.\
---------\
Seg: Not that the myth is a vain repetition of the penitential experience of the Jews; we have insisted too much on the triple function of the myth\'97as universalization of experience, as establishment of a tension between a beginning and an end, and as investigation of the relations between the primordial and the historical\'97to scorn the contribution of the myth, But this contribution cannot be understood except by starting from the impulsion that the myth receives from the experience which precedes it and from the symbols in which that experience took shape.\
---------\
Seg: There is no doubt that the phenomenology of religion has profoundly affected the problem of myths by thus going back to a mythical structure which would be the matrix of all the images and all the particular narrations peculiar to this or that mythology, and relating to this diffuse mythical structure the fundamental categories of the myth: participation, relation to the Sacred, etc.\
---------\
Seg: to ignominy. This religious content of experience is not within the province of science to bestow; it corrects the error of treating the scientific account as if it were itself metaphysical or religious; it challenges the tendency to make a religion of science\'97or a science of religion\'97a dogmatic act which destroys the moral dynamic of man. Indeed, many men of science are confronted with unexpected implications of their own thought and are beginning to accept, for instance, the trans-spatial nature of events within spatial matter.\
\

\f1\b Topic: 7 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: This dualism is far from being a primordial ontological structure; it is rather a regime of existence issuing from the will to live under the law and to be justified by the law. This will is sufficiently enlightened to recognize the truth and the goodness of the law, but too weak to fulfill it: \'93To will the good is present with me, but not to accomplish it; for the good which I will, I do not; but the evil which I will not, that I do\'94 (Rom. 7:18-19). At the same time, by contrast, that which I do not wish to do and yet do, stands before me as an alienated part of myself, St. Paul expresses well, by the very hesitation of his language, this cleavage in the personal pronoun. There is the I that acknowledges itself: \'93but I am a being of flesh, sold into the power of sin\'94 (7:14); but, acknowledging itself, it disowns itself: \'93it is no longer I who perform the action\'94 (7:20); disowning itself, it establishes itself within: \'93I delight in the law of God after the inward man\'94 (7:22); but honesty requires me to take both the I of reason and the I of flesh for myself: \'93It is, then, I myself who by reason serve a law of God and by the flesh a law of sin\'94 (7:25). This cleavage in myself is the key to the Pauline concept of flesh. Far from being a primordially accursed part of myself\'97the bodily part, sexuality for example,\'97the flesh is myself alienated from itself,\
---------\
Seg: What is signified by this possibility, this terrible possibility? Negatively, that man is not the origin of evil; man finds evil and continues it. The question will be to know whether the confession of man as sinner will have the power to take up the origin of evil completely into the evil will of which he accuses himself and of which he recognizes himself as author. Positively, that evil is as old as the oldest of beings; that evil is the past of being; that it is that which was overcome by the establishment of the world; that God is the future of being. The question will be to know whether the\
---------\
Seg: terras\'97psychic, terrestrial, corruptible, mortal\'97designates a creaturely state which is not necessarily evil. Moreover, 15:56 covertly connects this text with the theme of the inner struggle. Galatians 5:17 seems quite dualistic: \'93For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would\'94; but the following verse allows us to link this dualism with the experience of the inner struggle under the regime of the law: \'93But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.\'94\
---------\
Seg: For the purpose of stating, without any reserve, all the presuppositions of this investigation of finitude and evil, I will add this: the only thing that could dissolve the spell of that absolute genesis of being and that hypostatization of evil as a category of being would be a \'93Christology.\'94 By Christology I mean a doctrine capable of including in the life of God itself, in a dialectic of divine \'93persons,\'94 the figure of the suffering servant which we evoked above as the supreme possibility of human suffering.\
---------\
Seg: the duality of two tendencies, two impulses\'97a good inclination and an evil inclination. The latter\'97yetzer ha-ra\'97is implanted by the Creator in man; it is one of the things that God has made and of which he has said that they were \'93very good.\'94 The evil inclination, then, is not a radical evil, engendered by man, from which he is radically powerless to free himself; it is rather a permanent temptation that gives opportunity for the exercise of freedom of choice, an obstacle to be transformed into a springboard. \'93Evil inclination\'94, does not make sin something irreparable.\
---------\
Seg: Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good, Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.\
---------\
Seg: hence a sort of retribution, but the wholly internal re-enactment which is no longer restoration of an earlier happiness, but re-enactment of the present unhappiness.\
---------\
Seg: The first man, in his turn, is summed up in one act: he took the fruit and ate of it. About that event there is nothing to say; one can only tell it; it happens and henceforth evil has arrived. About the. instant, as a caesura, one can only say what it ends and what it begins. On the one hand, it brings to an end a time of innocence;\
---------\
Seg: For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death. For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me.\
---------\
Seg: had said, Thou shall not covet. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.\
\
\

\f1\b Topic: 8 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: 11	The Bible preserves traces of a legislation not yet touched by the infinite demand. Before the prophets, Yahweh, God of battles, tribal God, is not yet the God of holiness who requires justice; the struggle against the Baals is a struggle for monolatry without any specifically moral accent; it is less purity of heart than the jealous exclusiveness of a cult that bears witness. That is why, according to A. Lods (op. cit., $ 3, \'93Le Droit\'94), the demands that serve to measure sins are not yet the radical demands of the prophets; thus the pre-decalogue of Exodus 34:14-26, sometimes called the "second decalogue,\'94 still places in the first rank respect for festivals, cultual obligations, and the wholly ritual interdiction of images made of precious metals. The \'93Book of the Covenant\'94 (Exodus 20:24\'9723:19) is still more interesting; in all its cultual, criminal, civil, and moral prescriptions, that document resembles the other codes of the Ancient Near East. This kinship of .all oriental law (A. Lods, pp. 210-11) is interesting for our purpose; it warns us that the specific character of the Biblical \'93message\'94 is not to be sought in the direction of this elaboration of codes. Neither are the more humane aspects (prescriptions concerning the stranger, the widow, and the orphan, the restoration of pledges, equity, etc.) peculiar to the Bible: indeed, A. Lods remarks that on many points the \'93Book of the Covenant\'94 represents a more archaic stage in the evolution of oriental legislations than, for example, the Babylonian code, although the latter is ten centuries older.\
---------\
Seg: It was during the Exile and, consequently, at the time of the final blaze of prophecy, with Ezekiel and Jeremiah, that Israel conceived the project of 'an effectively practical existence in obedience; the Exile created a situation comparable to that of the ^f>ypfan captivity and the sojourn in the desert, a situation that might be called essentially Mosaic, It was during the Exile that Israel came to understand itself as a weak and despised people according to the canons of historical and political success, but gieat and blessed by the Law; the Law would henceforth give to the individual Jew and to the Jewish people their, definite profile.\
---------\
Seg: counter the failure to win exculpation. But this enlistment of the interdictions of \'93purity\'94 under the banner of ethics, such as we saw, for example, in Israel at the time of the second Temple, results in an extra load of prescriptions; the ritualization of conduct, undertaken for the purpose of providing a less costly substitute for the indefinite ethical demand, only adds a new code to the other. Thus a complicated and disparate miscellany of ethical and ritual prescriptions is put together, in which the scruples of the cult are moralized through contact with a subtle ethics, but ethics is diluted in the letter of the minute prescriptions of the ritual. Thus cultual scrupulousness multiplies the law and guilt at the same time.\
---------\
Seg: This political \'93nihilism\'94 is essential to the Hebraic consciousness of sin; it is, in fact, the expression of a pedagogy of historical failure that aims at placing the ethical demand beyond any assignable historical end, beyond any finite observance, beyond any self-justification. The deuteronomic spirit, then, is only an episode between the terrible preaching of Justice by Amos and the defeatism in which Jeremiah and Ezekiel mask their unlimited demand for selfabandonment to the absolute of Yahweh.\
---------\
Seg: The two curses give impetus to each other unceasingly. The zealous penitent gives himself the infinite task of satisfying all the prescriptions of the law; the failure of this undertaking gives impetus to the feeling of guilt; the integral observance by which the conscience seeks to exculpate itself increases the indictment; and as the atomization of the law tends to shift moral vigilance and direct it towards isolated and sometimes minute prescriptions, conscience consumes its energy in single combats with each of them.\
---------\
Seg: <37>	An important link between the Prophets and the Pharisees was no doubt, the group or order of Hassidim, those \'93pious ones,\'94 those vigil-keepers, close to the Levites and the Prophets, who taught penitence, ritual as well as moral, and practiced the discipline of nocturnal prayer They were already \'93separated ones,\'94 as the Pharisees were to be (\'93Pharisee\'94^ separated). A. N6her, Essence du propMihme, pp. 264-76, 294-95\
---------\
Seg: Let us present, without transition, this accusation of the accusation. Afterward we shall have to reread the whole of the preceding analysis in the light of this ultimate peripeteia, which can be summed up under the Pauline title of the \'93curse of the law\'94 (Gal. 3:13),\
---------\
Seg: With this schema of juridicization, which I see represented in Judaism by what I have called the Mosaic fantasy, we can connect cei tain other traits that will enrich our description of scrupulousness. The first is the coincidence of ritual and morality in scrupulousness. <49>	.\
---------\
Seg: But Isaiah, in the lightning-like vision in the Temple (6:1-13), discovers another dimension of God, and so a new dimension of sin: after the God of justice, after the God of the conjugal bond betrayed, here is the God of sovereignty and majesty, the holy God. By his measure man appears \'93unclean in lips and heart.\'94 Henceforth sin is represented by the figure of violated suzerainty; sin is pride, arrogance, false greatness. Isaiah draws from it a policy that anticipates the defeatism of Jeremiah during the siege of Jerusalem; if sin is the false greatness of purely human domination, Judah should not seek support in its might or in its alliances; if Judah had abandoned itself to unarmed obedience, without any reliance on itself, without defense and without alliance, Judah would have been saved. This unarmed obedience, true contrary of sin, Isaiah, it seems, was the first to call faith. Thus, the consciousness of sin advances and becomes boundless as historical insecurity grows, as the sign of history as devastator replaces the sign of victory, and as the failure of might becomes the sacrament of holy majesty. He who threatens infinitely is he who demands infinitely.\
---------\
Seg: man, It is3 then, the prior establishment of the bond of the Covenant that is important for the consciousness of sin; it is this that makes sin a violation of the Covenant,\
\
\

\f1\b Topic: 9 : 
\f0\b0 \
---------\
Seg: "3) From the third century b.o. there circulated an \'91Orphic\'92 poem telling the myth of Dionysos Zagreus torn apart by the Titans. The identity of the Cretan and the Thraco-Phrygian seems then an accomplished fact, at least in a particular tradition, which does not exclude others. This legend of Zagreus copies the legend of Osiris; we do not know when and where it was formed. In an Egyptian ritual, it gives rise to special rites: the initiate deposits in the kalathos objects offered to the infant god by the Titan. Is a \'91passion\'92 of the god performed? Is omophagy practiced? We do not know. Plutarch connects the legend with the psychological dualism dear to the school of Pythagoras and to Plato. With Neoplatonism, the moral sense dominates and perhaps gives rise to rites that escape us. Unless new texts are discovered, nothing allows us to say that Orphism transformed the Bacchic mysteries constituted as we see them in the first two centuries of our era. ,\
---------\
Seg: A third trait must be added to this double process of juridicization and ritualization of the scrupulous conscience: under the regime of a thoroughgoing and willing heteronomy, obligation has an enumerative and cumulative character opposed to the simplicity and sobriety of the command to love God and men. What strikes the reader who penetrates into the rabbinical literature is the incessant multiplication of the collections of interpretative decrees; the collection of halackoth gives the Mishnah, which, confronted with the Torah and explicated in its turn, gives the Gemara, which, joined to the Mishnah, constitutes the Babylonian and Palestinian Talmud. Now this process represents the movement of every conscience for which commandments do not cease to multiply; the scrupulous conscience is an increasingly articulated and subtle conscience that forgets nothing and adds incessantly to its obligations; it is a manifold and sedimented conscience that finds salvation only in movement; it accumulates behind itself an enormous past that makes tradition; it is alive only at its point, at the forward end of tradition, where it \'93interprets,\'94 in new circumstances, equivocations or contradictions. This is not a conscience that begins or begins\
---------\
Seg: Besides, the Greek example, in showing us the tragic itself, has the advantage of revealing to us, without any attenuation, its connection with theology.3 If there is a tragic vision of man in Aeschylus, that is because it is the other face of a tragic vision of the divine; it is in Greek tragedy that the theme of the man \'93blinded\'94 and led to his destruction by the gods is carried all at once to the uttermost limit of its virulence, so that thereafter the analogues of Greek tragedy are perhaps only muted expressions of the same insupportable revelation.\
---------\
Seg: Just as the tragic anthropology regroups the scattered signs of the ineluctable that are mingled with the growth of our concrete freedom, so the tragic theology regroups the signs of the apparent hostility of fate. Those signs appear when, for example, our vision of things becomes contracted. When wholeness is lost, we sink into the singularity of conclusions without premises. Only the \'93seer\'94 of Greek tragedy and the \'93fool\'94 of Shakespearian tragedy escape .from\
---------\
Seg: But in Sophocles there is no longer an end of the tragic, and in this sense Sophocles is more purely tragic than Aeschylus. <82> The hostile god makes himself felt less by pressure than by his absence, abandoning man to his own resources. This doubly tragic view bars the way to the solutions sketched by Aeschylus. Thus the tragedy of Antigone, which is a tragedy of insoluble contradiction,\
---------\
Seg: It seems to me that the tragic vision, when it remains true to its \'93type,\'94 excludes any other deliverance than \'93sympathy,\'94 than tragic \'93pity\'94\'97that is to say, an impotent emotion of participation in the misfortunes of the hero, a sort of weeping with him and purifying the tears by the beauty of song.\
---------\
Seg: As a consequence, everything that makes the tragic vision of the world ineluctable, makes the tragi-logic of being seductive, as the consecration and liquidation of the "wicked god.\'94 The "wicked god\'94 of tragedy becomes a logical moment in the dialectics of being.\
---------\
Seg: What, then, does \'93step by step\'94 mean? Various sorts of relations of orientation: relations in "depth,\'94 \'93lateral\'94 relations, \'93retroactive\'94 relations.\
---------\
Seg: It was the tragedies of Aeschylus that tied these themes together in a sheaf and added the quid proprturn that makes tragedy tragic.\
---------\
Seg: anew, but a conscience that continues and adds to. If its work of minute and often minuscule innovation stops, the conscience is caught in the trap of its own tradition, which becomes its yoke.}